Study Overview
Brief Summary
This is a phase II trial studies the effect of chemoimmunotherapy sequential residual tumor irradiation in treating patients with extensive stage small cell lung cancer. Even though small cell lung cancer is initially highly responsive to first-line chemotherapy plus PD-L1 inhibitors, treatment resistance inevitably happens. Residual tumor irradiation my prolong drug resistance, and may help prevent the growth and spread of the tumor cells to other parts of the body.
Detailed Description
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival of chemoimmunotherapy sequential residual tumor irradiation in patients with extensive stage small cell lung cancer (SCLC).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

II. To assess the overall response rate (ORR) and toxicity in extensive stage SCLC patients treated with chemoimmunotherapy squential residual tumor irradiation

Official Title
Chemoimmunotherapy Plus Ratiotherapy for Extensive Stage Small-cell Lung Cancer

Contacts and Locations
This section provides contact details for people who can answer questions about joining this study, and information on where this study is taking place.

To learn more, please see the Contacts and Locations section in How to Read a Study Record.

Study Contact 
Name: chunling zhang, md

Phone Number: 1718865657

Email: kevinji78@yahoo.com

This study has 3 locations
China
Shandong Locations
Qingdao, Shandong, China, 266042
RecruitingQingdao Central Hospital
Contact :
KEKE NIE, MD
68665078  NIEKEKEQD@163.COM
Qingdao, Shandong, China, 266042
RecruitingQingdao Central Hospital
Contact :
Yunhong You, MD
18561857907  kevinji78@yahoo.com
Qingdao, Shandong, China, 266042
RecruitingQingdao Central Hospital
Contact :
youxin ji, md
86-532-68665078
Principal Investigator :
youxin ji, md

Participation Criteria
Researchers look for people who fit a certain description, called eligibility criteria. Some examples of these criteria are a person's general health condition or prior treatments.

For general information about clinical research, read Learn About Studies.
Eligibility Criteria
Description
Inclusion Criteria:

>= 18 years of age Have an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status of =< 1 at the time of study treatment initiation Histologically or cytologically confirmed diagnosis of small cell lung cancer (SCLC) Patient should have extensive stage disease, defined as, malignant pleural effusion, pulmonary metastases in the contralateral lung, and/or the presence of extra-thoracic metastatic disease Must have measurable disease based on Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 prior to starting platinum-based systemic chemotherapy Absolute neutrophil count (ANC) >= 1.5 x 10^9/L Platelets >= 100 x 10^9/L Hemoglobin >= 9 g/dL Serum creatinine =< 1.5 x institution upper limit of normal (ULN) and calculated creatinine clearance of at least 15 ml/min.

Alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and aspartate aminotransferase (AST) =< 3 x upper limit of normal (ULN) (ALT and AST =< 5 x ULN is acceptable if liver metastases are present) Total serum bilirubin =< 1.5 x ULN. For patients with well documented Gilbert's syndrome, total bilirubin =< 3 x ULN with direct bilirubin within normal range.

Participant must understand the investigational nature of this study and sign an approved written informed consent form prior to receiving any study related procedure.

Exclusion Criteria:

ad major surgery within 14 days prior to starting study drug or has not recovered from major side effects (tumor biopsy is not considered major surgery) resulting from a prior surgery Positive for immunosuppressive disease, acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) or other immune depressing diseases. For human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), HVC and HBC-mandatory testing is required prior to enrollment Patient has known hypersensitivity to the components of the study drugs or any analogs History or current evidence of any condition, therapy, or laboratory abnormality that might confound the results of the study, interfere with the patient's participation for the full duration of the study, or is not in the best interest of the patient to participate, including, but not limited to: Myocardial infarction or arterial or venous thromboembolic events within 6 months prior to baseline or severe or unstable angina, New York Heart Association (NYHA) class III or IV disease. History of documented congestive heart failure (New York Heart Association functional classification III or IV) within 6 months prior to baseline. Poorly controlled arrhythmias

Study Plan
This section provides details of the study plan, including how the study is designed and what the study is measuring.

Expand all / Collapse all
How is the study designed?
Design Details
Observational Model  : Cohort
Time Perspective: Prospective
Groups and Interventions

Groups/Cohorts 	Intervention/Treatment 
Combined chemotherapy and immunotherapy plus residual lesion irradiation
Patients receive carboplatin 5/AUC intravenously (IV) on day 1, adebrelimab 1200mg IV on day 1, and etoposide100mg/m2 IV on days 1-3. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity; redsidual tumor irradiation for 50GY in 25 fraction.
Radiation: residual tumor irradiation
lung residual tumor will be given external beam irradiation for 50GY in 25 fractions in total

What is the study measuring?
Primary Outcome Measures 
Outcome Measure	Measure Description	Time Frame
progression-free survival (PFS)	PFS: time to disease progression or patient death	24 months
Secondary Outcome Measures 
Outcome Measure	Measure Description	Time Frame
Overall survival (OS)	OS: time to patient death	36 months

Collaborators and Investigators
This is where you will find people and organizations involved with this study.
Sponsor 
Qingdao Central Hospital
Investigators 
Study Chair:chunling zhang, md,Qingdao Central Hospital

Study Record Dates
These dates track the progress of study record and summary results submissions to ClinicalTrials.gov. Study records and reported results are reviewed by the National Library of Medicine (NLM) to make sure they meet specific quality control standards before being posted on the public website.
Study Registration Dates
First Submitted 
2024-07-04
First Submitted that Met QC Criteria 
2024-07-17
First Posted 
2024-07-23
Study Record Updates
Last Update Submitted that Met QC Criteria 
2024-07-17
Last Update Posted 
2024-07-23
Last Verified 
2024-07