Study Overview
Brief Summary
Background:

Medullary thyroid cancer (MTC) represents 5% of thyroid cancers and presents as a hereditary (25% of cases) or sporadic (75% of cases) neuroendocrine malignancy.
MTC arises from the parafollicular C-cells of the thyroid.
Germline mutations in the rearranged during transfection (RET) proto-oncogene occur in virtually all of hereditary MTC cases, and somatic RET mutations occur in 50% of sporadic cases.
Drugs targeting RET kinase such as vandetanib and cabozantinib have shown efficacy in the treatment of advanced or metastatic MTC, however, more effective RET inhibitors are needed for previously untreated patients as well as patients who have become refractory to other molecular targeted therapeutics (MTTs).
Ponatinib, a drug that is Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved as a therapy for chronic myelogenous leukemia
(CML) and Philadelphia chromosome-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia (Ph+ ALL), is a potent inhibitor of RET kinase.

Primary Objective:

-To determine the objective overall response rate (complete response [CR] + partial response

[PR] by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) to ponatinib in the treatment of patients with advanced or metastatic MTC previously treated with cabozantinib and vandetanib who: 1) have tumors with RET mutations and 2) have tumors without RET mutations.

Eligibility:

Patients must have histologically confirmed, unresectable, locally advanced or metastatic MTC, with measurable disease by RECIST criteria.
Patients must have disease amenable to biopsy and be willing to undergo biopsy for molecular analysis, and also have adequate archival material from their thyroidectomy or from a tumor biopsy obtained prior to beginning any systemic therapy.
Patients must have failed or been intolerant to prior treatment with both cabozantinib and vandetanib.
The last dose of prior systemic therapy must be more than 28 days prior to the first dose of ponatinib
Radiation therapy is permitted if the last treatment was received more than 28 days prior to the first dose of ponatinib.
Design:

Open label phase II trial with 2 treatment groups:
RET mutation positive MTC, previously treated with vandetanib and cabozantinib
RET mutation negative MTC, previously treated with vandetanib and cabozantinib
Patients will receive ponatinib 30 mg orally daily until disease progression or until the development of intolerable side effects.
Tumor response will be assessed by RECIST 1.1 criteria at 8 weeks and then every 12 weeks thereafter. After one year on study, tumor response will be assessed every 16 weeks.
Patients will have a biopsy of their MTC for molecular analysis prior to initiating treatment with ponatinib. Patients will also have a biopsy of their MTC at the time of tumor progression, should that occur.
Detailed Description
Background:

Medullary thyroid cancer (MTC) represents 5% of thyroid cancers and presents as a hereditary (25% of cases) or sporadic (75% of cases) neuroendocrine malignancy.
MTC arises from the parafollicular C-cells of the thyroid.
Germline mutations in the rearranged during transfection (RET) proto-oncogene occur in virtually all of hereditary MTC cases, and somatic RET mutations occur in 50% of sporadic cases.
Drugs targeting RET kinase such as vandetanib and cabozantinib have shown efficacy in the treatment of advanced or metastatic MTC, however, more effective RET inhibitors are needed for previously untreated patients as well as patients who have become refractory to other molecular targeted therapeutics (MTTs).
Ponatinib, a drug that is Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved as a therapy for chronic myelogenous leukemia
(CML) and Philadelphia chromosome-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia (Ph+ ALL), is a potent inhibitor of RET kinase.

Primary Objective:

-To determine the objective overall response rate (complete response [CR] + partial response [PR] by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) to ponatinib in the treatment of patients with advanced or metastatic MTC previously treated cabozantinib and vandetanib who: 1) have tumors with RET mutations and 2) have tumors without RET mutations.

Eligibility:

Patients must have histologically confirmed, unresectable, locally advanced or metastatic MTC, with measurable disease by RECIST criteria.
Patients must have disease amenable to biopsy and be willing to undergo biopsy for molecular analysis, and also have adequate archival material from their thyroidectomy or from a tumor biopsy obtained prior to beginning any systemic therapy.
Patients must have failed or been intolerant to prior treatment with both cabozantinib and vandetanib.
The last dose of prior systemic therapy must be more than 28 days prior to the first dose of ponatinib.
Radiation therapy is permitted if the last treatment was received more than 28 days prior to the first dose of ponatinib.
Design:

Open label phase II trial with 2 treatment groups:
RET mutation positive MTC, previously treated with vandetanib and cabozantinib
RET mutation negative MTC, previously treated with vandetanib and cabozantinib
Patients will receive ponatinib 30 mg orally daily until disease progression or until the development of intolerable side effects.
Tumor response will be assessed by RECIST 1.1 criteria at 8 weeks and then every 12 weeks thereafter. After one year on study, tumor response will be assessed every 16 weeks.
Patients will have a biopsy of their MTC for molecular analysis prior to initiating treatment with ponatinib. Patients will also have a biopsy of their MTC at the time of tumor progression, should that occur.
Official Title
A Phase II Study of Ponatinib in Advanced or Metastatic Medullary Thyroid Cancer

Contacts and Locations
This section provides contact details for people who can answer questions about joining this study, and information on where this study is taking place.

To learn more, please see the Contacts and Locations section in How to Read a Study Record.

This study has 1 location
United States
Maryland Locations
Bethesda, Maryland, United States, 20892
National Institutes of Health Clinical Center, 9000 Rockville Pike

Participation Criteria
Researchers look for people who fit a certain description, called eligibility criteria. Some examples of these criteria are a person's general health condition or prior treatments.

For general information about clinical research, read Learn About Studies.
Eligibility Criteria
Description
INCLUSION CRITERIA:
Diagnosis of localized or metastatic unresectable medullary thyroid cancer (MTC). The histological diagnosis of MTC must be confirmed on review of submitted tumor tissue by the Laboratory of Pathology in the National Cancer Institute
Measurable disease, defined as at least one lesion that can be accurately measured in at least one dimension (longest diameter to be recorded for non-nodal lesions and short axis for nodal lesions) as greater than or equal to 20 mm with conventional techniques or as greater than or equal to 10 mm with spiral computed tomography (CT) scan.
Disease amenable to biopsy and agree to undergo biopsy for molecular analysis
The last dose of previous therapy targeting rearranged during transfection (RET) kinase must be given at least 4 weeks prior to the first dose of ponatinib.
Previous treatment with cytotoxic chemotherapy, immunotherapy, or radiotherapy are permitted, if the last dose was given at least 4 weeks prior to the first dose of ponatinib
Patient must have failed (progressed on or been intolerant of) prior treatment with cabozantinib and vandetanib.
Age greater than or equal to 18 years old
Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status less than or equal to 2
Normal organ and marrow function as defined below:

Leukocytes greater than or equal to microL
Absolute neutrophil count 1,500/microL
Platelet count greater than or equal to 100,000 microL
Total bilirubin < 1.5 times upper limit of normal (ULN)
Aspartate aminotransferase (AST) serum glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase(SGOT)/alanine aminotransferase (ALT) serum glutamic pyruvic transaminase (SGPT) < 2.5 times institutional ULN or < 5 times ULN if liver involvement
Prothrombin Time < 1.5 times ULN
Creatinine < 1.5 times ULN
Lipase less than or equal to 1.5 times ULN
Negative pregnancy test for women of childbearing potential. The effects of ponatinib on the developing human fetus are unknown. For this reason, women of childbearing potential and men must agree to use adequate contraception (hormonal or barrier method of birth control; abstinence) prior to study entry and for the duration of study participation. Should a woman become pregnant or suspect she is pregnant while she or her partner is participating in this study, she should inform her treating physician immediately.
Normal QT interval corrected (Fridericia) (QTcF) on screening electrocardiogram (ECG) evaluation, defined as QTcF of less than or equal to 450 ms in males or less than or equal to 470 ms in females.
Ability to understand and the willingness to sign a written informed consent document and follow the guidelines of the clinical protocol including visits to National Cancer Institute (NCI), Bethesda, Maryland for treatment and follow up visits.
EXCLUSION CRITERIA:

Patients who are receiving any other investigational agent.
Patients with brain metastases or spinal cord compression unless they completed radiation therapy greater than or equal to 4 weeks prior to the first dose of ponatinib and are stable without steroids or anti-convulsant therapy for greater than or equal to 10 days.
Medications that are known to be associated with Torsades de Pointes.
Uncontrolled hypertension (systolic blood pressure > 150 or diastolic blood pressure > 100
Significant or active cardiovascular disease, specifically including but not restricted to:

History of myocardial infarction
History of atrial or ventricular arrhythmia
Unstable angina within 6 months prior to first dose of ponatinib
History of congestive heart failure
Left ventricular ejection fraction fraction (LVEF) less than lower limit of normal
History of peripheral arterial occlusive disease
History of cerebrovascular accident or transient ischemic attack
Venous thromboembolism including deep venous thrombosis or pulmonary embolism within 6 months prior to enrollment
A history of pancreatitis or alcohol abuse
Uncontrolled hypertriglyceridemia (> 450 mg/dL)
Major surgery (with the exception of minor surgical procedures, such as catheter placement or tumor biopsy) within 28 days prior to the first dose of ponatinib
Ongoing or active infection including known history of human immunodeficiency virus [HIV], hepatitis B virus [HBV], or hepatitis C virus[HCV]. Testing for these viruses is not required in the absence of a history of infection.
Suffer from any condition or illness that, in the opinion of the investigator, would compromise patient safety or interfere with the evaluation of the safety of the study drug
Evidence of a bleeding diathesis that cannot be corrected with standard therapy or factor replacement
Presence of another primary malignancy within the past 2 years (except for nonmelanoma skin cancer or cervical cancer in situ. Prior prostate cancer is also permitted if prostatic specific antigen (PSA) is now undetectable.)
Pregnant or lactating
Ages Eligible for Study 
18 Years to 99 Years (Adult,  Older Adult )
Sexes Eligible for Study 
All
Accepts Healthy Volunteers 
No
Study Plan
This section provides details of the study plan, including how the study is designed and what the study is measuring.

Expand all / Collapse all
How is the study designed?
Design Details
Primary Purpose  : Treatment
Allocation  : Non-Randomized
Interventional Model  : Parallel Assignment
Masking  : None (Open Label)
Arms and Interventions

Participant Group/Arm 	Intervention/Treatment 
Active Comparator: RET mutation positive participants
Rearranged during transfection (RET) mutation positive
Drug: Ponatinib
Ponatinib tablets will be administered orally, continually, once daily at a dose of 30 mg. A cycle of ponatinib is defined as 28 consecutive days starting with the first day of the treatment cycle. Treatment will be administered primarily in an outpatient setting.

Active Comparator: RET mutation negative participants
Rearranged during transfection (RET) mutation negative
Drug: Ponatinib
Ponatinib tablets will be administered orally, continually, once daily at a dose of 30 mg. A cycle of ponatinib is defined as 28 consecutive days starting with the first day of the treatment cycle. Treatment will be administered primarily in an outpatient setting.

What is the study measuring?
Primary Outcome Measures 
Outcome Measure	Measure Description	Time Frame
Overall Response Rate.	Defined as the percentage of participants with a best response (complete response (CR) + partial response (PR)) recorded from the start of the treatment until disease progression/recurrence assessed by the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST). Complete response (CR) is the disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (Whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to <10 mm. Partial response (PR) is at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters.	2-4 months
Secondary Outcome Measures 
Outcome Measure	Measure Description	Time Frame
Progression Free Survival	Progression free survival is defined as the duration of time from start of treatment to time of progression or death, whichever occurs first.	2-4 months
Number of Participants With Adverse Events	Here is the number of participants with adverse events. For a detailed list of adverse events, see the adverse event module.	17 months and 19 days
Molecular Differences in Advanced Medullary Thyroid Cancer (MTC)	Compare the molecular profile of tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) prior to treatment with the molecular profile at the time of progression. Prior to the first dose of ponatinib and at time of progression, subjects were to undergo a biopsy of the primary tumor or any metastatic site for analysis of tumor DNA for rearranged during transfection (RET) or rat sarcoma (RAS) mutation. Progression is assessed by the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) and is defined as at least a 20% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study.	Prior to the first dose of ponatinib
Changes in Serum Levels of MTC Tumor Markers Calcitonin (CTN) and Its Relation With Clinical Response	Responders are those subjects with a best biomarker response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) and who achieve a clinical response of CR or PR assessed by the following criteria. Biomarker: complete response (CR) is normalization (</= upper limit of normal (ULN)) of CTN (i.e., normal <10 pg/mL) following treatment, confirmed with a repeat CTN level at least 4 weeks apart. Partial response (PR) is a >/=50% decrease in the CTN level relative to baseline level, confirmed with a repeat CTN level at least 4 weeks apart. Clinical: complete response (CR) is an average of 0-2 formed stools per day for a period of at least 4 weeks. Partial response (PR) is a >50% decrease in the average stool frequency relative to baseline and a change in stool consistency from watery to loose (partially formed) for a period of at least 4 weeks.	Baseline to 4 weeks
Objective Response to Ponatinib	Objective response was assessed by the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST). Complete response (CR) is the disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (Whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to <10 mm. Partial response (PR) is at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters. Progressive disease (PD) is at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5mm. Stable disease (SD) is neither shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD.	up to 4 cycles of treatment with ponatinib
Changes in Serum Levels of MTC Tumor Markers Carcinoemybryonic Antigen (CEA) and Its Relation With Clinical Response	Responders are those subjects with a best biomarker response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) and who achieve a clinical response of CR or PR assessed by the following criteria. Biomarker: complete response (CR) is normalization (</= upper limit of normal (ULN)) of CTN (i.e., normal 0-2.5 mcg/L) following treatment, confirmed with a repeat CEA level at least 4 weeks apart. Partial response (PR) is a >/=50% decrease in the CEA level relative to baseline level, confirmed with a repeat CEA level at least 4 weeks apart. Clinical: complete response (CR) is an average of 0-2 formed stools per day for a period of at least 4 weeks. Partial response (PR) is a >50% decrease in the average stool frequency relative to baseline and a change in stool consistency from watery to loose (partially formed) for a period of at least 4 weeks.	Baseline to 4 weeks
Overall Survival	Overall survival is defined as the time between the first day of treatment to the day of disease progression.	up to 6 months
Collaborators and Investigators
This is where you will find people and organizations involved with this study.
Sponsor 
National Institutes of Health Clinical Center (CC)
Collaborators 
National Cancer Institute (NCI)
Investigators 
Principal Investigator:James Gulley, M.D.,National Cancer Institute (NCI)
Publications
General

These publications are provided voluntarily by the person who enters information about the study and may be about anything related to the study.

Lakhani VT, You YN, Wells SA. The multiple endocrine neoplasia syndromes. Annu Rev Med. 2007;58:253-65. doi: 10.1146/annurev.med.58.100305.115303.
Modigliani E, Cohen R, Campos JM, Conte-Devolx B, Maes B, Boneu A, Schlumberger M, Bigorgne JC, Dumontier P, Leclerc L, Corcuff B, Guilhem I. Prognostic factors for survival and for biochemical cure in medullary thyroid carcinoma: results in 899 patients. The GETC Study Group. Groupe d'etude des tumeurs a calcitonine. Clin Endocrinol (Oxf). 1998 Mar;48(3):265-73. doi: 10.1046/j.1365-2265.1998.00392.x.
Moley JF, DeBenedetti MK. Patterns of nodal metastases in palpable medullary thyroid carcinoma: recommendations for extent of node dissection. Ann Surg. 1999 Jun;229(6):880-7; discussion 887-8. doi: 10.1097/00000658-199906000-00016.
Study Record Dates
These dates track the progress of study record and summary results submissions to ClinicalTrials.gov. Study records and reported results are reviewed by the National Library of Medicine (NLM) to make sure they meet specific quality control standards before being posted on the public website.
Study Registration Dates
First Submitted 
2013-04-20
First Submitted that Met QC Criteria 
2013-04-20
First Posted (Estimated) 
2013-04-24
Results Reporting Dates
Results First Submitted 
2016-02-18
Results First Submitted that Met QC Criteria 
2016-02-18
Results First Posted (Estimated) 
2016-03-17
Study Record Updates
Last Update Submitted that Met QC Criteria 
2016-12-30
Last Update Posted 
2017-02-15
Last Verified 
2016-12