Study Overview
Brief Summary
For patients with unresectable or recurrent disease, radiation is routinely administered, often in combination with systemic chemotherapy. However, because of wide range of radiation, more complications of conventional radiotherapy limit its treatment dose. The local recurrence rates of conventional radiotherapy are dissatisfied.Stereotactic body radiation therapy(SBRT) well solved the problem above. On the one hand, by improving the single dose, it not only shortens the total radiation treatment, but also increases the total dose of equivalent biological effects.
Detailed Description
Thymoma is mainly divided into two types, invasive and noninvasive type, and more than 60% of patients belong to noninvasive thymoma. When feasible, complete surgical resection is the primary treatment. There are quite a number of thymoma patients that has lost its surgical indications when diagnosed. Even after complete resection, the recurrence rate can be about 20%. For patients with unresectable or recurrent disease, radiation is routinely administered, often in combination with systemic chemotherapy. However, because of wide range of radiation, more complications of conventional radiotherapy limit its treatment dose. The local recurrence rates of conventional radiotherapy are up 16% to 45%. Moreover, it's not suitable for patients with severe heart and lung disease. Stereotactic body radiation therapy(SBRT) well solved the problem above. On the one hand, by improving the single dose, it not only shortens the total radiation treatment, but also increases the total dose of equivalent biological effects; On the other hand, SBRT, with more precise conformal radiation therapy, significantly reduces the damage to the surrounding normal tissues. Theoretically, SBRT can improve the local control, as well greatly reduces incidence of the radiation pneumonia, pericarditis, tracheitis, esophagitis and so on. However, few studies focused on the treatment of thymoma by SBRT, except two case reports Here we performed a prospective study on the treatment of thymoma by SBRT. The purpose of this prospective study was a preliminary evaluation of feasibility, efficacy and toxicity ofγ-SBRT in the treatment of thymoma.

Contacts and Locations
This section provides contact details for people who can answer questions about joining this study, and information on where this study is taking place.

To learn more, please see the Contacts and Locations section in How to Read a Study Record.

This study has 1 location
China
Chongqing Municipality Locations
Chongqing, Chongqing Municipality, China, 400042
Daping Hospital, Third Military Medical University

Inclusion Criteria: Histologic or cytologic diagnosis of thymoma, Stage II-IV.

Males or females between 18 Years to 75 Years.
No prior SBRT, if the surgery or chemotherapy has been administered, the interval is at least above four weeks.
Performance status of 0, 1 on the ECOG criteria. Expected survival is above three months.
At least one unidimensional measurable lesion meeting Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST. 2000).
Patients can have the brain / meningeal metastasis history, but the metastasis must be treated by operation or radiotherapy), and clinically stable for at least 2 months.
Adequate hematologic (neutrophil count >= 1,500/uL, platelets >= 100,000/uL), hepatic (transaminase =< upper normal limit(UNL)x2.5, bilirubin level =< UNLx1.5), and renal (creatinine =< UNL) function.
Patient compliance that allow adequate follow-up. Informed consent from patient or patient's relative.
If female: childbearing potential either terminated by surgery, radiation, or menopause, or attenuated by use of an approved contraceptive method (intrauterine device [IUD], birth control pills, or barrier device) during and for 2 months after trial. If male, use of an approved contraceptive method during the study and 2 months afterwards. Females with childbearing potential must have a urine negative HCG test within 7 days prior to the study enrollment.
No concomitant prescriptions including cyclosporin A, valproic acid, phenobarbital, phenytoin, ketoconazole.
Exclusion Criteria:

No pathological or cytological evidence of cancer.
Inability to comply with protocol or study procedures.
Medically uncontrolled serious heart, lung, neurological, psychological, metabolic disease Second primary malignancy that is clinically detectable at the time of consideration for study enrollment.
Pregnant or breast-feeding.
Enrollment in other study within 30 days.
Brain metastasis with symptoms.
Hypokalemic and intestinal obstruction history.

Study Plan
This section provides details of the study plan, including how the study is designed and what the study is measuring.

Expand all / Collapse all
How is the study designed?
Design Details
Primary Purpose  : Treatment
Interventional Model  : Sequential Assignment
Masking  : None (Open Label)
Arms and Interventions

Participant Group/Arm 	Intervention/Treatment 
Experimental: stereotactic body radiation therapy	Radiation: stereotactic body radiation therapy
A total radiation dose of 35-50 Gy was delivered to the 50% isodose line covering at least 95% of the PTV (3.5-5Gy/fraction), and a total radiation dose of 49-70 Gy was delivered to the 70% isodose line covering at least 95% of GTV (4.9-7 Gy/fraction).

Other Names:
Gamma knife
What is the study measuring?
Primary Outcome Measures 
Outcome Measure	Measure Description	Time Frame
PFS (progression-free time)	 	measured from the start of SBRT until any area in recurrence or distant metastasis, assessed up to 1 years
Tumor response rate	 	the ratio between the number of responders and number of patients assessable for tumor response，assessed up to 1 years
Collaborators and Investigators
This is where you will find people and organizations involved with this study.
Sponsor 
Third Military Medical University
Publications
General

These publications are provided voluntarily by the person who enters information about the study and may be about anything related to the study.

Baschnagel AM, Mangona VS, Robertson JM, Welsh RJ, Kestin LL, Grills IS. Lung metastases treated with image-guided stereotactic body radiation therapy. Clin Oncol (R Coll Radiol). 2013 Apr;25(4):236-41. doi: 10.1016/j.clon.2012.12.005. Epub 2013 Jan 24.
Lee CM, Lee JD, Hobson-Webb LD, Bedlack RS, Salama JK. Treatment of Thymoma-Associated Myasthenia Gravis With Stereotactic Body Radiotherapy: A Case Report. Ann Intern Med. 2016 Aug 16;165(4):300-1. doi: 10.7326/L15-0469. Epub 2016 Mar 15. No abstract available.
Study Record Dates
These dates track the progress of study record and summary results submissions to ClinicalTrials.gov. Study records and reported results are reviewed by the National Library of Medicine (NLM) to make sure they meet specific quality control standards before being posted on the public website.
Study Registration Dates
First Submitted 
2017-02-24
First Submitted that Met QC Criteria 
2017-03-07
First Posted 
2017-03-13
Study Record Updates
Last Update Submitted that Met QC Criteria 
2017-03-07
Last Update Posted 
2017-03-13
Last Verified 
2017-03