Study Overview
Brief Summary
This prospective study aims to evaluate the sensitivity and specificity of an integrated model using fragmentomic profiles of plasma cell-free DNA for early detection of pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors and differential diagnosis of solid pancreatic tumors.
Detailed Description
Pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (pNETs) are insidious and difficult to diagnose early. Approximately 36.8% of pNET patients have lymph node metastasis[1], and 20% -64% of patients have liver metastasis at the time of diagnosis[2]. The prognosis of pNETs is closely related to tumor grade and the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) staging. Among patients with known pathological grades in the United States, well-differentiated NETs had the highest median overall survival (OS, 16.2 years), moderately differentiated NETs had the worse OS (8.3 years), and poorly differentiated or undifferentiated NETs had the worst OS (10 months)[3]. The 5-year overall survival rates of localized, locally advanced, and metastatic pNETs were 93%, 77%, and 27%, respectively[4]. Given that the prognosis of early-stage pNETs is significantly better than that of advanced pNETs, early detection of pNETs can provide a cure opportunity and significantly improve survival.

In the past few decades, the application of 68Ga-DOTANOC PET/CT, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), computed tomography (CT), and endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) has improved the detection rate of pNETs. But their application is limited by high costs, lack of sufficient sensitivity or specificity, and radiation exposure. Therefore, there is an urgent need for accurate and less invasive approaches to use in clinical practice for the early detection of pNETs.

Recently, the study of cell-free DNA (cfDNA) has provided a noninvasive approach for the diagnosis of solid malignancies. cfDNAs represent extracellular DNA fragments released from cell apoptosis and necrosis into human body fluids like plasma, thus carrying the genetic and epigenetic information from the cell and tissue of origin[5]. Among them, circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA), as a part of the total cfDNA, is released into the blood by tumor cells[6]. cfDNA fragmentomics depends on whole genome sequencing, and its characteristics mainly include copy number variation (CNV), nucleosome footprint, fragment length and motif[5, 7, 8], with targets covering the entire genome level. cfDNA fragmentomics has shown excellent predictive performance in multiple studies[5, 9-11]. Therefore, this prospective study aims to evaluate the sensitivity and specificity of an integrated model using fragmentomic profiles of plasma cell-free DNA (cfDNA) for early detection of pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors.

Additionally, once a pancreatic lesion is detected, accurate discrimination between pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC), pNETs and solid pseudopapillary tumor (SPT) is essential. This study therefore has two co-primary objectives: (1) to develop a fragmentomic assay that flags asymptomatic individuals likely to harbor a pNET; (2) to build a differential model that distinguishes PDAC vs pNETs vs SPT in patients with confirmed solid pancreatic neoplasms."

Official Title
A Prospective Study of Plasma Cell-free DNA Fragmentomics for Early Detection of Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Tumors and Differential Diagnosis of Solid Pancreatic Tumors

Contacts and Locations
This section provides contact details for people who can answer questions about joining this study, and information on where this study is taking place.

To learn more, please see the Contacts and Locations section in How to Read a Study Record.

Study Contact 
Name: Xianjun Yu, MD, PhD

Phone Number: 021-64175590-88503

Email: yuxianjun@fudanpci.org

Study Contact Backup
Name: Shunrong Ji, MD, PhD

Phone Number: 13788993956

Email: jishunrong@fudanpci.org

This study has 2 locations
China
Shanghai Municipality Locations
Shanghai, Shanghai Municipality, China, 200032
RecruitingFudan University shanghai cancer center
Contact :
Shunrong Ji, MD,PhD
13788993956
Principal Investigator :
Xianjun Yu
Sub-Investigator :
Shunrong Ji
Sichuan Locations
Chengdu, Sichuan, China, 610041
RecruitingWest China Hospital, Sichuan University
Contact :
Doctor
086-18019216797  zwh0105@126.com

Participation Criteria
Researchers look for people who fit a certain description, called eligibility criteria. Some examples of these criteria are a person's general health condition or prior treatments.

For general information about clinical research, read Learn About Studies.
Eligibility Criteria
Description
Inclusion Criteria:

Age 18 and above, regardless of gender;
Histopathological diagnosis with non-functional pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor, pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma or solid pseudopapillary tumor;
Not receiving any anti-tumor treatment before surgery, including chemotherapy, embolization, ablation, radiotherapy, and molecular targeted therapy;
No obvious surgical contraindications;
Able to comply with research plans, follow-up plans, and other protocol requirements;
Voluntary participation and signed informed consent.
Exclusion Criteria:

Pathological diagnosis was not pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor, pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma or solid pseudopapillary tumor;
Currently diagnosed with other types of tumors or any cancer history;
Diagnosed with familial syndromes;
Receiving anti-tumor treatment before surgery, including chemotherapy, embolization, ablation, radiotherapy, and molecular targeted therapy;
Ongoing fever or recipient of anti-inflammation therapy within 14 days prior to study blood draw;
Recipient of blood transfusion within 30 days prior to study blood draw;
Recipient of organ transplant or prior non-autologous (allogeneic) bone marrow or stem cell transplant;
Poor health condition and not suitable for blood draw;
Any other disease/condition deemed not suitable for study enrollment by researcher.
Study Population
The study population enrolled by the main center and the sub-center is uniformly divided into four groups with the same enrollment criteria for all.

pNET Group: Not receiving anti-tumor treatment before surgery, and were histopathologically confirmed pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors.
PDAC group: Patients with histopathologically confirmed pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) who have not received any anti-tumor treatment before surgery.
SPT group: Patients with histopathologically confirmed solid pseudopapillary tumor (SPT) of the pancreas who have not received any anti-tumor treatment before surgery.
Healthy group: Healthy volunteers without a history of tumors and no pancreatic organic diseases.
Ages Eligible for Study 
18 Years and older (Adult,  Older Adult )
Sexes Eligible for Study 
All
Accepts Healthy Volunteers 
Yes
Sampling Method
Non-Probability Sample
Study Plan
This section provides details of the study plan, including how the study is designed and what the study is measuring.

Expand all / Collapse all
How is the study designed?
Design Details
Observational Model  : Cohort
Time Perspective: Prospective
Biospecimen Retention: Samples With DNA
Biospecimen Description: Plasma samples
Groups and Interventions

Groups/Cohorts 	Intervention/Treatment 
pNETs
Patients with pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (pNETs). The prospective cases enrolled by the sub-center shall strictly comply with the study's inclusion/exclusion criteria, consistent with the main center, and no independent adjustment of the enrollment criteria is allowed.
Diagnostic Test: Blood collection
Blood collection for fragmentomic profiles of plasma cell-free DNA. The sub-center shall use the same blood collection consumables (EDTA anticoagulant vacutainer tubes) and blood collection volume (10ml) as the main center; plasma separation shall be completed within 2 hours after blood collection, and all operations shall comply with the study's unified SOP.

Healthy
Healthy volunteers. The prospective cases enrolled by the sub-center shall strictly comply with the study's inclusion/exclusion criteria, consistent with the main center, and no independent adjustment of the enrollment criteria is allowed.
Diagnostic Test: Blood collection
Blood collection for fragmentomic profiles of plasma cell-free DNA. The sub-center shall use the same blood collection consumables (EDTA anticoagulant vacutainer tubes) and blood collection volume (10ml) as the main center; plasma separation shall be completed within 2 hours after blood collection, and all operations shall comply with the study's unified SOP.

PDAC
Patients with pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) . The prospective cases enrolled by the sub-center shall strictly comply with the study's inclusion/exclusion criteria, consistent with the main center, and no independent adjustment of the enrollment criteria is allowed.
Diagnostic Test: Blood collection
Blood collection for fragmentomic profiles of plasma cell-free DNA. The sub-center shall use the same blood collection consumables (EDTA anticoagulant vacutainer tubes) and blood collection volume (10ml) as the main center; plasma separation shall be completed within 2 hours after blood collection, and all operations shall comply with the study's unified SOP.

SPT
Patients with solid pseudopapillary tumor (SPT) of pancreas. The prospective cases enrolled by the sub-center shall strictly comply with the study's inclusion/exclusion criteria, consistent with the main center, and no independent adjustment of the enrollment criteria is allowed.
Diagnostic Test: Blood collection
Blood collection for fragmentomic profiles of plasma cell-free DNA. The sub-center shall use the same blood collection consumables (EDTA anticoagulant vacutainer tubes) and blood collection volume (10ml) as the main center; plasma separation shall be completed within 2 hours after blood collection, and all operations shall comply with the study's unified SOP.

What is the study measuring?
Primary Outcome Measures 
Outcome Measure	Measure Description	Time Frame
Sensitivity and specificity of the integrated fragmentomic model for detecting pNETs	Sensitivity and specificity of the integrated model using fragmentomic profiles of plasma cfDNA for early detection of pNETs	From date of first blood draw until first documented pNETs diagnosis, assessed up to 3 years.
Sensitivity and specificity of the model for differential diagnosis among solid pancreatic tumors	Sensitivity and specificity of the model for differential diagnosis among PDAC, pNET and SPT.	From first blood draw until histopathological diagnosis, up to 3 years
Secondary Outcome Measures 
Outcome Measure	Measure Description	Time Frame
Positive predictive value and negative predictive value	Positive predictive value (PPV) and negative predictive value (NPV) of the integrated model using fragmentomic profiles of plasma cfDNA for early detection of pNETs	From date of first blood draw until first documented pNETs diagnosis, assessed up to 3 years
Accuracy of the model in predicting AJCC stage (where applicable) and tumor grade	Sensitivity and specificity of the integrated model using fragmentomic profiles of plasma cfDNA in predicting AJCC stage (where applicable) and tumor grade	From date of first blood draw until first documented histopathological diagnosis, assessed up to 3 years
Collaborators and Investigators
This is where you will find people and organizations involved with this study.
Sponsor 
Fudan University
Collaborators 
West China Hospital
Investigators 
Principal Investigator:Xianjun Yu, MD, PhD,Fudan University
Publications
General

These publications are provided voluntarily by the person who enters information about the study and may be about anything related to the study.

Fischer L, Bergmann F, Schimmack S, Hinz U, Priess S, Muller-Stich BP, Werner J, Hackert T, Buchler MW. Outcome of surgery for pancreatic neuroendocrine neoplasms. Br J Surg. 2014 Oct;101(11):1405-12. doi: 10.1002/bjs.9603. Epub 2014 Aug 13.
Dasari A, Shen C, Halperin D, Zhao B, Zhou S, Xu Y, Shih T, Yao JC. Trends in the Incidence, Prevalence, and Survival Outcomes in Patients With Neuroendocrine Tumors in the United States. JAMA Oncol. 2017 Oct 1;3(10):1335-1342. doi: 10.1001/jamaoncol.2017.0589.
Zhang X, Wang Z, Tang W, Wang X, Liu R, Bao H, Chen X, Wei Y, Wu S, Bao H, Wu X, Shao Y, Fan J, Zhou J. Ultrasensitive and affordable assay for early detection of primary liver cancer using plasma cell-free DNA fragmentomics. Hepatology. 2022 Aug;76(2):317-329. doi: 10.1002/hep.32308. Epub 2022 Jan 26.
Fece de la Cruz F, Corcoran RB. Methylation in cell-free DNA for early cancer detection. Ann Oncol. 2018 Jun 1;29(6):1351-1353. doi: 10.1093/annonc/mdy134. No abstract available.
Mathios D, Johansen JS, Cristiano S, Medina JE, Phallen J, Larsen KR, Bruhm DC, Niknafs N, Ferreira L, Adleff V, Chiao JY, Leal A, Noe M, White JR, Arun AS, Hruban C, Annapragada AV, Jensen SO, Orntoft MW, Madsen AH, Carvalho B, de Wit M, Carey J, Dracopoli NC, Maddala T, Fang KC, Hartman AR, Forde PM, Anagnostou V, Brahmer JR, Fijneman RJA, Nielsen HJ, Meijer GA, Andersen CL, Mellemgaard A, Bojesen SE, Scharpf RB, Velculescu VE. Detection and characterization of lung cancer using cell-free DNA fragmentomes. Nat Commun. 2021 Aug 20;12(1):5060. doi: 10.1038/s41467-021-24994-w.
Snyder MW, Kircher M, Hill AJ, Daza RM, Shendure J. Cell-free DNA Comprises an In Vivo Nucleosome Footprint that Informs Its Tissues-Of-Origin. Cell. 2016 Jan 14;164(1-2):57-68. doi: 10.1016/j.cell.2015.11.050.
Guo W, Chen X, Liu R, Liang N, Ma Q, Bao H, Xu X, Wu X, Yang S, Shao Y, Tan F, Xue Q, Gao S, He J. Sensitive detection of stage I lung adenocarcinoma using plasma cell-free DNA breakpoint motif profiling. EBioMedicine. 2022 Jul;81:104131. doi: 10.1016/j.ebiom.2022.104131. Epub 2022 Jun 30.
Bao H, Wang Z, Ma X, Guo W, Zhang X, Tang W, Chen X, Wang X, Chen Y, Mo S, Liang N, Ma Q, Wu S, Xu X, Chang S, Wei Y, Zhang X, Bao H, Liu R, Yang S, Jiang Y, Wu X, Li Y, Zhang L, Tan F, Xue Q, Liu F, Cai S, Gao S, Peng J, Zhou J, Shao Y. Letter to the Editor: An ultra-sensitive assay using cell-free DNA fragmentomics for multi-cancer early detection. Mol Cancer. 2022 Jun 11;21(1):129. doi: 10.1186/s12943-022-01594-w.
Ma X, Chen Y, Tang W, Bao H, Mo S, Liu R, Wu S, Bao H, Li Y, Zhang L, Wu X, Cai S, Shao Y, Liu F, Peng J. Multi-dimensional fragmentomic assay for ultrasensitive early detection of colorectal advanced adenoma and adenocarcinoma. J Hematol Oncol. 2021 Oct 26;14(1):175. doi: 10.1186/s13045-021-01189-w.
Study Record Dates
These dates track the progress of study record and summary results submissions to ClinicalTrials.gov. Study records and reported results are reviewed by the National Library of Medicine (NLM) to make sure they meet specific quality control standards before being posted on the public website.
Study Registration Dates
First Submitted 
2023-04-27
First Submitted that Met QC Criteria 
2023-04-27
First Posted 
2023-05-08
Study Record Updates
Last Update Submitted that Met QC Criteria 
2026-03-23
Last Update Posted 
2026-03-25
Last Verified 
2026-03