Study Overview
Brief Summary
This research study is evaluating the safety and tolerability of the drug lenalidomide in combination with and following mismatched related donor microtransplantation in high risk AML patients in first remission. This study also aims to define the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of lenalidomide given in this setting.

Microtransplantation seeks to give the participant donor cells in hopes that those cells can attack the underlying cancer. However, since the donor cells do not replace all of the host cells, it can hopefully avoid many of the serious risks involved with standard transplant, including graft-vs.-host disease (GVHD) - a complication where the donor cells attack the participant's normal body. Recent studies have suggested that lenalidomide can help aid donor cells to attack cancer when given after a stem cell transplant. This trial is trying to see if lenalidomide can help encourage the attack of leukemia cells by donor cells given as part of microtransplantation.

The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has approved lenalidomide but it has been approved for other uses such as in the treatment of other cancers including multiple myeloma and non-Hodgkin lymphoma. Although lenalidomide has been studied in patients with AML, it has not been approved by the FDA for standard use in AML. Lenalidomide is a compound made by the Celgene Corporation. It has properties which could demonstrate antitumor effects. The exact antitumor mechanism of action of lenalidomide is unknown.

Detailed Description
After the screening procedures confirm that the participant is eligible to participate in the research study. The participant will be given a study drug-dosing calendar.

The investigators are looking for the highest dose of the study drug that can be administered safely without severe or unmanageable side effects in participants, not everyone who participates in this research study will receive the same dose of the study drug. The dose given will depend on the number of participants who have been enrolled in the study prior and how well they have tolerated their doses. Participants will receive the following:

Cytarabine
Microtransplantation
Lenalidomide

Contacts and Locations
This section provides contact details for people who can answer questions about joining this study, and information on where this study is taking place.

To learn more, please see the Contacts and Locations section in How to Read a Study Record.

This study has 1 location
United States
Massachusetts Locations
Boston, Massachusetts, United States, 02114
Massachusetts General Hospital

Participation Criteria
Researchers look for people who fit a certain description, called eligibility criteria. Some examples of these criteria are a person's general health condition or prior treatments.

For general information about clinical research, read Learn About Studies.
Eligibility Criteria
Description
Inclusion Criteria:

Recipient Inclusion Criteria
Adults, aged 18 through 75 years of age, with pathologically confirmed acute myelogenous leukemia, in pathologically confirmed complete remission following anti-leukemic therapy.
AST, ALT and Alkaline Phosphatase <5x Upper Limit normal (ULN), direct bilirubin < 2.0 mg/dl.
Adequate renal function as defined by: calculated creatinine clearance ≥ 60 mL/min (Cockcroft-Gault Formula) or serum Cr less than institution ULN (the elderly will often have < 60 GFR)
ECOG performance status 0-2.
Have a diagnosis of high-risk AML as established by a poor-risk karyotype, adverse risk by ELN criteria, a therapy-related AML, age ≥ 60 or with antecedent hematologic disorder
LVEF must be equal to or greater than 40%, as measured by MUGA scan or echocardiogram
Patients, or appropriate designee, must be able to provide informed consent.
Must not have received systemic anti-neoplastic therapy, including radiotherapy within 14 days of study treatment.
Female patients of childbearing age must have negative pregnancy test.
Male subject agrees to use an acceptable method for contraception during the entire study treatment period and through 6 months after the last dose of lenalidomide.
All study participants must be registered into the mandatory Revlimid REMS® program, and be willing and able to comply with the requirements of the REMS® program.
Females of reproductive potential must adhere to the scheduled pregnancy testing as required in the Revlimid REMS® program. If needed, patients should be able to take aspirin (81 or 325 mg) daily as prophylactic anticoagulation.
Donor Inclusion Criteria
Haploidentical 1st-degree relative as defined by 3/6 or 4/6 HLA-matched at HLA -A, -B, or -DRB1 who is 18-70 years of age
ECOG performance status 0 or 1
Excellent health per conventional pre-donor history (medical and psychosocial evaluation)
No positive testing for viral infection (HbsAg, HIV, HCV)
Donor ability to understand and provide informed consent
Meets standard institutional criteria for GCSF mobilized PBSC donation
Exclusion Criteria:

Recipient Exclusion Criteria
Diagnosis of acute promyelocytic leukemia
Active refractory or relapsed acute leukemia
Prior use of fludarabine, as this agent has been associated with higher subsequent rates of graft versus host disease
Individuals with a history of a different malignancy are ineligible except for the following circumstances. Individuals with a history of other malignancies are eligible if they have been disease-free for at least 3 years and are deemed by the investigator to be at low risk for recurrence of that malignancy. Individuals with the following cancers are eligible if diagnosed and treated within the past 3 years: cervical cancer in situ, and basal cell or squamous cell carcinoma of the skin.
Uncontrolled intercurrent illness that would limit compliance with study requirements.
HIV-positive individuals on combination antiretroviral therapy are ineligible because of the potential for pharmacokinetic interactions with study drug. In addition, these individuals are at increased risk of lethal infections when treated with marrow-suppressive therapy.
A diagnosis of active hepatitis B or C as defined by detectable viral load assays in the blood
Known hypersensitivity to thalidomide or lenalidomide.
The development of erythema nodosum if characterized by a desquamating rash while taking lenalidomide.
Significant cardiac disease as determined by the investigator including:

Known or suspected cardiac amyloidosis
Congestive heart failure of Class III or IV of the NYHA classification
Uncontrolled angina, hypertension or arrhythmia
Myocardial infarction in past 6 months
Any uncontrolled or severe cardiovascular disease
Prior cerebrovascular event with persistent neurologic deficit
Medical conditions that, in the investigator's opinion, would impose excessive risk to the subject.
Equal to or greater than grade 2 ataxia, cranial or peripheral neuropathy.
Systemic infection requiring IV antibiotic therapy within 7 days preceding the first dose of study drug, or other severe infection.
Pregnant women are excluded from this study.
Ages Eligible for Study 
18 Years to 75 Years (Adult,  Older Adult )
Sexes Eligible for Study 
All
Accepts Healthy Volunteers 
Yes
Study Plan
This section provides details of the study plan, including how the study is designed and what the study is measuring.

Expand all / Collapse all
How is the study designed?
Design Details
Primary Purpose  : Treatment
Allocation  : N/A
Interventional Model  : Single Group Assignment
Masking  : None (Open Label)
Arms and Interventions

Participant Group/Arm 	Intervention/Treatment 
Experimental: Lenalidomide
Dose escalation will occur using a standard 3+3 dose escalation approach, beginning in dose level I with dose cohorts and rules for escalation and de-escalation.

Participants will receive the following:

Cytarabine-intravenous, fixed dosage, given 5 times during cycle
HLA-mismatched stem-cell microtransplantation
Lenalidomide-administered daily per cycle
Drug: Lenalidomide
Patients will receive lenalidomide starting on day 6 of each post-remission cycle, following conclusion of cytarabine post-remission therapy on days 1-5. Following count recovery in the third post-remission cycle, patients will then receive lenalidomide daily as a maintenance therapy.

Other Names:
•Revlimid®
Genetic: HLA-mismatched stem-cell Microtransplantation
Patient will receive HLA-mismatched stem cell microtransplant infusion on day 6 of each post-remission cycle, following conclusion of course of cytarabine in each cycle.

Drug: Cytarabine
Patients will receive cytarabine post-remission therapy for 3 cycles, on days 1-5 of each cycle.

Other Names:
Cytosar-U ®
1-β-Arabinofuranosylcytosine
Arabinosylcytosine
Cytosine arabinoside
Ara-C
What is the study measuring?
Primary Outcome Measures 
Outcome Measure	Measure Description	Time Frame
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of lenalidomide after microtransplantation	 	Baseline, 42 Days
Secondary Outcome Measures 
Outcome Measure	Measure Description	Time Frame
Disease Free Survival	 	1 year
Overall Survival	 	1 Year
To assess immunomodulatory effects of this combination through measurement of T cell subsets by flow cytometric techniques and through microchimerism analysis at multiple points on study	 	2 Years
To identify incidence and severity of acute and chronic graft versus host disease (GVHD).	 	2 Years
To detect and categorize, according to severity, the cumulative incidences of toxicities	 	2 Years
Collaborators and Investigators
This is where you will find people and organizations involved with this study.
Sponsor 
Massachusetts General Hospital
Collaborators 
Celgene Corporation
Investigators 
Principal Investigator:Amir Fathi, MD,Massachusetts General Hospital
Study Record Dates
These dates track the progress of study record and summary results submissions to ClinicalTrials.gov. Study records and reported results are reviewed by the National Library of Medicine (NLM) to make sure they meet specific quality control standards before being posted on the public website.
Study Registration Dates
First Submitted 
2014-09-26
First Submitted that Met QC Criteria 
2014-09-29
First Posted (Estimated) 
2014-10-02
Study Record Updates
Last Update Submitted that Met QC Criteria 
2017-08-15
Last Update Posted 
2017-08-18
Last Verified 
2017-08