Study Overview
Brief Summary
This is a Phase III, single arm, multicenter study designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of atezolizumab in high PD-L1 expression, chemotherapy-naïve, without a sensitizing EGFR mutation or ALK translocation patients with stage IV non-squamous or squamous NSCLC.
Official Title
A Phase III, Single-Arm Multicenter Study of Atezolizumab (Anti-PD-L1 Antibody) in High PD-L1 Expression, Chemotherapy-Naïve Patients With Stage IV Non-Squamous or Squamous Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer

Contacts and Locations
This section provides contact details for people who can answer questions about joining this study, and information on where this study is taking place.

To learn more, please see the Contacts and Locations section in How to Read a Study Record.

This study has 20 locations
China
Beijing, China, 100050
Beijing Tiantan Hospital,Capital Medical University
Beijing, China, 100053
Xuanwu Hospital, Capital Medical University
Beijing, China, 101149
Beijing Chest Hospital
Changsha, China, 410013
The Third Xiangya Hospital Of Central South University
Changzhou, China, 213003
Changzhou First People's Hospital
Chongqing, China, 400042
Daping Hospital of Third Military Medical University
Fuzhou, China, 350014
Fujian Cancer Hospital
Hangzhou, China, 310016
Sir Run Run Shaw Hospital Zhejiang University
Hefei, China, 230001
Anhui Province Cancer Hospital
Hefei, China, 230022
The First Affiliated Hospital of Anhui Medical University
Jinzhou, China, 121001
The First Affiliated Hospital Of Jinzhou Medical University
Linyi, China, 276034
Linyishi Cancer Hospital
Nanjing, China, 210029
Nanjing Chest Hospital
Shanghai, China, 200000
Shanghai Chest Hospital
Shantou, China, 515041
Cancer Hospital of Shantou University Medical College
Tianjin, China, 300052
Tianjin Medical University General Hospital
Tianjin, China, 300060
Tianjin Cancer Hospital
Wuhan, China, 430023
Tumor Center,Union Hospital, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology
Wuhan, China, 430060
Renmin Hospital of Wuhan University
Xiamen, China, 361003
The First Affiliated Hospital of Xiamen University

Participation Criteria
Researchers look for people who fit a certain description, called eligibility criteria. Some examples of these criteria are a person's general health condition or prior treatments.

For general information about clinical research, read Learn About Studies.
Eligibility Criteria
Description
Inclusion Criteria:

ECOG performance status of 0 or 1.
Histologically or cytologically confirmed, Stage IV non-squamous or squamous NSCLC.
No prior treatment for Stage IV non-squamous or squamous NSCLC.
Patients who have received prior neo-adjuvant, adjuvant chemotherapy, radiotherapy, or chemo-radiotherapy with curative intent for non-metastatic disease must have experienced a treatment free interval of at least 6 months from enrollment since the last chemotherapy, radiotherapy, or chemo-radiotherapy cycle.
Tumor TC3 or IC3, as determined by SP142 performed by a central laboratory on previously obtained archival tumor tissue or tissue obtained from a biopsy at screening.
Measurable disease, as defined by RECIST v1.1.
Adequate hematologic and end-organ function.
Life expectancy ≥3 months.
For women of childbearing potential: agreement to remain abstinent or use contraception, and agreement to refrain from donating.
Exclusion Criteria:

Known sensitizing mutation in the EGFR gene or ALK fusion oncogene.
Symptomatic, untreated, or actively progressing CNS metastases.
Spinal cord compression not definitively treated with surgery and/or radiation, or previously diagnosed and treated spinal cord compression without evidence that disease has been clinically stable for ≥2 weeks prior to enrollment.
Current leptomeningeal disease.
Uncontrolled tumor-related pain.
Uncontrolled pleural effusion, pericardial effusion, or ascites requiring recurrent drainage procedures.
Uncontrolled or symptomatic hypercalcemia.
Malignancies other than NSCLC within 5 years prior to enrollment, with the exception of those with a negligible risk of metastasis or death treated with expected curative outcome.
Pregnancy or breastfeeding, or intention of becoming pregnant during study treatment or within at least 5 months after the last dose of atezolizumab.
History of severe allergic, anaphylactic, or other hypersensitivity reactions to chimeric or humanized antibodies or fusion proteins.
Known allergy or hypersensitivity to biopharmaceuticals produced in Chinese hamster ovary cells or any component of the atezolizumab formulation.
Active or history of autoimmune disease or immune deficiency.
History of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, organizing pneumonia, drug-induced pneumonitis, idiopathic pneumonitis, or evidence of active pneumonitis on screening chest CT scan.
Positive human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) test result at screening.
Patients with active hepatitis B or active hepatitis C at screening.
Active tuberculosis.
Severe infections within 4 weeks prior to randomization, including, but not limited to, hospitalization for complications of infection, bacteremia, or severe pneumonia.
Significant cardiovascular disease.

Study Plan
This section provides details of the study plan, including how the study is designed and what the study is measuring.

Expand all / Collapse all
How is the study designed?
Design Details
Primary Purpose  : Treatment
Allocation  : N/A
Interventional Model  : Single Group Assignment
Masking  : None (Open Label)
Arms and Interventions

Participant Group/Arm 	Intervention/Treatment 
Experimental: Atezolizumab
Participants will receive IV infusion of atezolizumab on Day 1 of each 21-day cycle until unacceptable toxicity or loss of clinical benefit as determined by investigators.
Drug: Atezolizumab
Atezolizumab will be administered by IV infusion at a fixed dose of 1200 mg on Day 1 of each 21-day cycle until unacceptable toxicity or loss of clinical benefit as determined by investigators.

Other Names:
Tecentriq
What is the study measuring?
Primary Outcome Measures 
Outcome Measure	Measure Description	Time Frame
Overall survival (OS)	Overall survival (OS) is defined as the time from atezolizumab initiation to death from any cause.	Atezolizumab initiation to death from any cause (up to approximately 28 months)
Secondary Outcome Measures 
Outcome Measure	Measure Description	Time Frame
Progression-free survival (PFS)	Progression-free survival (PFS) is defined as the time from atezolizumab initiation to the first occurrence of disease progression or death from any cause (whichever occurs first), as determined by investigators according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors, Version 1.1 (RECIST v1.1).	Atezolizumab initiation to the first occurrence of disease progression or death from any cause (whichever occurs first), (up to approximately 28 months)
OS Rate at 1-Year	OS rate at 1-year is defined as the probability of participants who have not experienced death from any cause at 1-year after atezolizumab initiation.	Atezolizumab initiation to 1-year
OS Rate at 2-Year	OS rate at 2-year is defined as the probability of participants who have not experienced death from any cause at 2-year after atezolizumab initiation.	Atezolizumab initiation to 2-year
Objective Response Rate (ORR)	Objective response rate (ORR) is defined as the proportion of participants with a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR), as determined by investigators according to RECIST v1.1.	Randomization up to approximately 34 months
Duration of Response (DOR)	Duration of response (DOR) is defined as the time from the first occurrence of an objective response to disease progression or death from any cause (whichever occurs first), as determined by investigators according to RECIST v1.1.	Randomization up to approximately 34 months
Percentage of Participants With Adverse Events	Percentage of participants with adverse events.	Randomization up to approximately 34 months

Collaborators and Investigators
This is where you will find people and organizations involved with this study.
Sponsor 
Hoffmann-La Roche
Investigators 
Study Director:Clinical Trials,Hoffmann-La Roche

Study Record Dates
These dates track the progress of study record and summary results submissions to ClinicalTrials.gov. Study records and reported results are reviewed by the National Library of Medicine (NLM) to make sure they meet specific quality control standards before being posted on the public website.
Study Registration Dates
First Submitted 
2021-09-08
First Submitted that Met QC Criteria 
2021-09-08
First Posted 
2021-09-17
Study Record Updates
Last Update Submitted that Met QC Criteria 
2025-12-10
Last Update Posted 
2025-12-12
Last Verified 
2025-12

