Study Overview
Brief Summary
Early clinical trials on evaluating the tolerance, safety and efficacy of autologous TILs in high-risk recurrent primary hepatocellular carcinoma
Official Title
Early Clinical Trials on Evaluating the Tolerance, Safety and Efficacy of Autologous TILs in High-risk Recurrent Primary Hepatocellular Carcinoma

Contacts and Locations
This section provides contact details for people who can answer questions about joining this study, and information on where this study is taking place.

To learn more, please see the Contacts and Locations section in How to Read a Study Record.

This study has 1 location
China
Shanghai Municipality Locations
Shanghai, Shanghai Municipality, China, 200438
Eastern Hepatobiliary Surgery Hospital

Participation Criteria
Researchers look for people who fit a certain description, called eligibility criteria. Some examples of these criteria are a person's general health condition or prior treatments.

For general information about clinical research, read Learn About Studies.
Eligibility Criteria
Description
Inclusion Criteria:

Age ≥18 years, gender unlimited;
Patients diagnosis of primary hepatocellular carcinoma by histopathology and/or cytology;
At the initial enrollment evaluation, patients were expected to accept radical resection of liver cancer and meet at least one of the following high-risk recurrence factors after surgery: ①There are 3 or more tumor lesions in the liver; ②The diameter of a single tumor lesion is >8cm; ③Existence macrovascular tumor thrombus; ④>5 MVI or MVI occurred in the distant paracancer tissues;
Before enrollment (after radical resection of liver cancer), imaging evaluation was performed to ensure that the tumor was completely removed (clear margin);
Must have at least 1 resectable lesion (diameter ≥2 cm);
ECOG score <2;
Child-Pugh score ≤7;
Hematology and organ function indicators should be met simultaneously: (1) White blood cell count ≥3.0E+9/ L, neutrophil count ≥1.5E+9/ L, platelet countPlatelet count ≥8.0E10/ L, hemoglobin ≥80g/L (2) Liver function: aspartate aminotransferase (AST)≤5 times normal value, alanine aminotransferase (ALT)≤5 times normal value, bilirubin ≤5 times normal value, serum albumin ≥28 g/L; (3) Renal function: creatinine (Cr)≤1.5 times normal limit, creatinine clearance ≥50 mL/min;
An estimated life expectancy of ≥3 months;
Participation in this clinical study voluntary, can cooperate with researchers to carry out research, and sign informed consent.
Exclusion Criteria:

Primary hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) has recurred in the past, or has other types of liver cancer at the same time (such as intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma, mixed type of liver cancer);
Have a history of high fever or severe infection within 2 weeks prior to pretreatment, or are expected to undergo systemic anti-infective therapy or systemic steroid therapy during this trial;
Hepatic encephalopathy occurred within 2 weeks before pretreatment;
Previous or screening with autoimmune liver disease;
Screening with moderate or higher peritoneal effusion;
Clear neurological/psychiatric symptoms are known to be associated with brain metastases and/or assessed by MMSE;
Anti-tumor therapy such as chemotherapeutic drugs, targeted drugs, radio frequency ablation or minimally invasive intervention was received within 4 weeks before pretreatment;
Have received or are expected to participate in this study within 4 weeks before pretreatment to receive TIL required focus radiotherapy, or tumor evaluation focus (target focus or non-target focus) radiotherapy, or radical radiotherapy;
Any toxic response resulting from previous anti-tumor treatment prior to pretreatment did not return to grade 1 or below (CTCAE5.0 version);
Previous history of organ / stem cell transplantation or expected to be involved in this trial for organ / stem cell transplantation;
Left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF)<45% or New York Heart Association (NYHA)≥ grade 2;
Known or private HIV infection or syphilis infection;
The previous 3 years other system primary malignant tumor history (except skin basal cell carcinoma or cervical carcinoma in situ);
A known allergy to two or more non-homogeneous foods/drugs, or a known history of allergies to pre-treated drugs, including cyclophosphamide, fludarbin, interleukin;
Pregnant, lactating women or within one year of having a family plan;
Participated in other clinical trials within 3 months prior to screening;
Other circumstances that the researchers considered inappropriate to participate in the experiment.

Study Plan
This section provides details of the study plan, including how the study is designed and what the study is measuring.

Expand all / Collapse all
How is the study designed?
Design Details
Primary Purpose  : Treatment
Allocation  : Non-Randomized
Interventional Model  : Sequential Assignment
Masking  : Single (Investigator)
Arms and Interventions

Participant Group/Arm 	Intervention/Treatment 
Experimental: High dose group
10^10 TIL
Drug: Tumor infiltrating lymphocyte
Tumor infiltrating lymphocytes were isolated from tumor tissues from tumor biopsy or operation. These TILs were cultured in human IL-2 medium for 4 to 5 weeks. 10e9 to 10e10 TILs were yielded. The phenotype, function and sterile were detected before these TILs infused patients.

Experimental: Low dose group
10^9 TIL
Drug: Tumor infiltrating lymphocyte
Tumor infiltrating lymphocytes were isolated from tumor tissues from tumor biopsy or operation. These TILs were cultured in human IL-2 medium for 4 to 5 weeks. 10e9 to 10e10 TILs were yielded. The phenotype, function and sterile were detected before these TILs infused patients.

Experimental: Extension set
The number of TIL is decided by dose escalation experiment.
Drug: Tumor infiltrating lymphocyte
Tumor infiltrating lymphocytes were isolated from tumor tissues from tumor biopsy or operation. These TILs were cultured in human IL-2 medium for 4 to 5 weeks. 10e9 to 10e10 TILs were yielded. The phenotype, function and sterile were detected before these TILs infused patients.

What is the study measuring?
Primary Outcome Measures 
Outcome Measure	Measure Description	Time Frame
DLT	To evaluate the tolerability and safty of autologous TILs in high-risk recurrent primary hepatocellular carcinoma.	24 months
Progression-Free Survival	To evaluate the tolerability and safty of autologous TILs in high-risk recurrent primary hepatocellular carcinoma.	24 months
Secondary Outcome Measures 
Outcome Measure	Measure Description	Time Frame
Overall Survival Overall Survival	To evaluate the efficacy of autologous TILs in high-risk recurrent primary hepatocellular carcinoma.	24 months
EQ-5D score	To evaluate the efficacy of autologous TILs in high-risk recurrent primary hepatocellular carcinoma.	24 months
Collaborators and Investigators
This is where you will find people and organizations involved with this study.
Sponsor 
CAR-T (Shanghai) Cell Biotechnology Co., Ltd.
Collaborators 
Eastern Hepatobiliary Surgery Hospital
Study Record Dates
These dates track the progress of study record and summary results submissions to ClinicalTrials.gov. Study records and reported results are reviewed by the National Library of Medicine (NLM) to make sure they meet specific quality control standards before being posted on the public website.
Study Registration Dates
First Submitted 
2020-08-26
First Submitted that Met QC Criteria 
2020-08-28
First Posted 
2020-09-04
Study Record Updates
Last Update Submitted that Met QC Criteria 
2020-08-28
Last Update Posted 
2020-09-04
Last Verified 
2020-08