Study Overview
Brief Summary
National, multicenter, non-randomized, retrospective observational study (Real World Evidence-RWE) to analyze the epidemiological profile of diffuse large B cell lymphoma, clinical management, treatment in molecular subgroups, progression profile and patient survival outcomes enrolled and treated within the last 6 years (2017 to 2022), in national cancer reference centers.
Detailed Description
Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma management is a challenge in clinical setting, as the heterogeneity of conditions due to the molecular complexity of DLBCL may limit treatment response. Other major factor is that in Brazil we lack evidence of treatment response profiling regarding this molecular complexity. To know the epidemiological profile of DLBCL, together with the first-line treatment profile that has been adopted in reference centers, as well as the management of relapsing, is essentially important in generating evidence that add up to actions targeting the improvement of patient care, providing them with better treatments. The Brazilian reality of clinical presentation, management profile, employed treatments and response rate is little known. Considering the Brazilian reality of a continental country, where healthcare services in reference centers present heterogeneous realities, analyzing clinical routine data may generate important evidence (RWE) to comprise the understanding on treatments effectiveness. Generated evidence has the potential to help understanding the reality of Brazilian patients, as well as supporting new regional researches.

Contacts and Locations
This section provides contact details for people who can answer questions about joining this study, and information on where this study is taking place.

To learn more, please see the Contacts and Locations section in How to Read a Study Record.

This study has 4 locations
Brazil
Belo Horizonte, Brazil
Research Site
Recife, Brazil
Research Site
Salvador, Brazil
Research Site
São Paulo, Brazil
Research Site

Participation Criteria
Researchers look for people who fit a certain description, called eligibility criteria. Some examples of these criteria are a person's general health condition or prior treatments.

For general information about clinical research, read Learn About Studies.
Eligibility Criteria
Description
Inclusion Criteria:

Male and female;
Age above 18 years old;
Diagnosis of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) and high-grade non-Hodgkin B-cell lymphoma at all stagings;
Lymphoma classified for the cell of origin (GCB - Germinal Center B-Cell lymphoma, and non-germinal center);
Having first life of treatment information available in institutional medical record;
Having survival data available in institutional medical record.
Exclusion Criteria:

No medical record of the molecular subgroup classification;
Diagnosis of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, confirmed in the year 2016;
Patients diagnosed with Transformed Lymphomas.
Study Population
Participants diagnosed with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, who meet the eligibility criteria and have been treated and followed in the study participating sites within the last 6 years (from 2017 to 2022) will be included in the study.
Ages Eligible for Study 
18 Years to 100 Years (Adult,  Older Adult )
Sexes Eligible for Study 
All
Accepts Healthy Volunteers 
No
Sampling Method
Probability Sample
Study Plan
This section provides details of the study plan, including how the study is designed and what the study is measuring.

Expand all / Collapse all
How is the study designed?
Design Details
Observational Model  : Cohort
Time Perspective: Retrospective
Groups and Interventions

Groups/Cohorts 
Diagnosed with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, and classified regarding the cell of origin
Retrospective data collection will be carried out from the medical records of the participants included in the study. Will be held description of the epidemiological profile and pathological staging of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma conditions (DLBCL/LDGCB), imaging profiling, together with first-line treatment used in subgroups of germinal center or activated B-cell, in patients followed in Brazilian reference cancer treatment centers, within the last 6 years (between 2017 and 2022).
What is the study measuring?
Primary Outcome Measures 
Outcome Measure	Measure Description	Time Frame
Disease staging	Description of the staging of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma conditions in patients followed in Brazilian reference cancer treatment centers	Time Frame: 6 years (Time of retrospective observational analysis of the study)
Time between diagnosis and start of treatment	Description of the time between diagnosis and start of treatment	Time Frame: 6 years (Time of retrospective observational analysis of the study)
Progression-free Survival	Progression-free Survival will be evaluated as the time from the beginning of treatment, considering each line of treatment, to the objective progression of tumor or death	Time Frame: 6 years (Time of retrospective observational analysis of the study)
Overall Survival	Overall Survival will be evaluated as the time from the diagnosis of the hematological disease at any staging until all-cause death	Time Frame: 6 years (Time of retrospective observational analysis of the study)
Collaborators and Investigators
This is where you will find people and organizations involved with this study.
Sponsor 
AstraZeneca
Collaborators 
Hospital Israelita Albert Einstein
Investigators 
Principal Investigator:Guilherme Fleury Perini,Hospital Israelita Albert Einstein
Study Record Dates
These dates track the progress of study record and summary results submissions to ClinicalTrials.gov. Study records and reported results are reviewed by the National Library of Medicine (NLM) to make sure they meet specific quality control standards before being posted on the public website.
Study Registration Dates
First Submitted 
2023-07-04
First Submitted that Met QC Criteria 
2023-07-14
First Posted 
2023-07-24
Study Record Updates
Last Update Submitted that Met QC Criteria 
2025-05-20
Last Update Posted 
2025-05-23
Last Verified 
2025-05