Study Overview
Brief Summary
The purpose of this study is to understand if treatment with one chemotherapy medication combined with immune therapy (pembrolizumab) is tolerable and effective for patients with lung cancer and performance status of 2 (PS2), which means you have limitations in carrying out certain activities or spend up to half of your day resting.
Official Title
A Pilot Study of Pembrolizumab and Single Agent Chemotherapy as First Line Treatment for Patients With Locally Advanced or Metastatic Non-small Cell Lung Cancer With Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) Performance Status of 2

Contacts and Locations
This section provides contact details for people who can answer questions about joining this study, and information on where this study is taking place.

To learn more, please see the Contacts and Locations section in How to Read a Study Record.

Study Contact 
Name: Megan Baumgart

Phone Number: 585-275-4401

Email: Megan_Baumgart@URMC.Rochester.edu

This study has 2 locations
United States
New York Locations
Rochester, New York, United States, 14642
Not yet recruitingUniversity of Rochester
Contact :
Megan Baumgart
wcictoresearch@urmc.rochester.edu
Principal Investigator :
Megan Baumgart
Rochester, New York, United States, 14642
RecruitingUniversity of Rochester

Participation Criteria
Researchers look for people who fit a certain description, called eligibility criteria. Some examples of these criteria are a person's general health condition or prior treatments.

For general information about clinical research, read Learn About Studies.
Eligibility Criteria
Description
Inclusion Criteria:

Participants must be >18 years old at time of diagnosis
Histologically confirmed non-small cell lung cancer
ECOG PS 2
Clinical staging of IIIc or IV disease.
4A. For patients with stage IIIc disease, patients are ineligible for or refuse standard treatment with platinum-double chemotherapy and radiation.

4B. For patients with stage IV disease, platinum doublet chemotherapy is not appropriate, deemed unsafe by the treating physician, or declined by the patient

4C. Screening lab work must meet the following parameters:

4Ca. Absolute neutrophil count (ANC) ≥1000/mm3

4Cb. Platelet count ≥100,000/mm3

4Cc. CrCl>50 (if pemetrexed is to be offered)

4Cd. AST and ALT ≤ 2.5 x ULN

4D. Patients with small, asymptomatic brain metastases are eligible

4E. Women of childbearing potential must be negative for pregnancy testing (urine or blood) and agree to use effective contraception. Viable contraception should be used after trial screening, before initiation of chemotherapy, and throughout the duration of active treatment in the study.

Non-childbearing potential is defined as (by other than medical reasons): -Amenorrheic >2 years

Amenorrheic for <2 years and a follicle-stimulating hormone value in the postmenopausal range upon pre-study (screening) evaluation
Post hysterectomy, oophorectomy or tubal ligation. Otherwise the patient must be willing to use 2 adequate barrier methods throughout the study, starting with the screening visit through 120 days after the last dose of study drug

4F.Participants must read or be read and explained the purposes of the study and sign a statement of informed consent prior to participation. Those who do not read or understand English are eligible and may be consented according to institutional regulations.

Exclusion Criteria:

Patients with history of autoimmune conditions with the following exceptions, which are allowed: alopecia, vitiligo, rheumatoid arthritis, psoriasis/psoriatic arthritis, Hashimoto's thyroiditis
Patients on immunosuppressive medication, including steroids (if doses exceed equivalent of prednisone 10 mg daily). Short courses of steroids which are discontinued prior to start of treatment are acceptable.
Patients with cardiovascular, hepatic, or renal systemic diseases that would preclude use of chemotherapy and/or immunotherapy per the treating investigator.
The patient must not be on any clinical trials involving other experimental therapies during study treatment
Women who are currently pregnant or breast-feeding
Patients with any other concurrent medical or psychiatric condition that were deemed inappropriate for entry into the study per the investigator.
Symptomatic, untreated brain metastases. Patients with treated brain metastases may be considered eligible after completion of radiation if steroids have been tapered to less than equivalent of 10 mg of prednisone.
Active infection requiring IV antibiotics

Study Plan
This section provides details of the study plan, including how the study is designed and what the study is measuring.

Expand all / Collapse all
How is the study designed?
Design Details
Primary Purpose  : Treatment
Allocation  : Non-Randomized
Interventional Model  : Parallel Assignment
Masking  : None (Open Label)
Arms and Interventions

Participant Group/Arm 	Intervention/Treatment 
Experimental: Experimental 1: pembrolizumab and Pemetrexed
Treatment includes administration of pembrolizumab and chemotherapy, which are administered every 21 days

Pembrolizumab 200 mg and Pemetrexed 500 mg/m2 day 1 of 21 day cycle (for non-squamous only)

Drug: Pembrolizumab
Pembrolizumab 200 mg

Other: Pemetrexed (Chemotherapy)
500 mg/m2 day 1 of 21 day cycle (for non-squamous only)

Experimental: Experimental 2: pembrolizumab and Nab-paclitaxel
Treatment includes administration of pembrolizumab and chemotherapy, which are administered every 21 days

Pembrolizumab 200 mg and Nab-paclitaxel 100 mg/m2 days 1,8 of 21 day cycle x 4 cycles followed by pembrolizumab alone

Drug: Pembrolizumab
Pembrolizumab 200 mg

Other: Nab-paclitaxel (Chemotherapy)
100 mg/m2 days 1,8 of 21 day cycle x 4 cycles

What is the study measuring?
Primary Outcome Measures 
Outcome Measure	Measure Description	Time Frame
Number of participants with Adverse Events as a Measure of Safety and Tolerability	Determine the rate of treatment-limiting toxicities in patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer with ECOG PS 2 who are treated with pembrolizumab and single-agent chemotherapy	18 Months
Secondary Outcome Measures 
Outcome Measure	Measure Description	Time Frame
Percentage of participants with Complete Response or Partial Response	Determine the proportion of patients who achieve a complete or partial response as their best overall response based on RECIST v1.1 criteria will be evaluated. Patients with nonevaluable or unknown response status will be considered nonresponders.	18 Months

Collaborators and Investigators
This is where you will find people and organizations involved with this study.
Sponsor 
University of Rochester
Investigators 
Principal Investigator:Megan Baumgart,University of Rochester

Study Record Dates
These dates track the progress of study record and summary results submissions to ClinicalTrials.gov. Study records and reported results are reviewed by the National Library of Medicine (NLM) to make sure they meet specific quality control standards before being posted on the public website.
Study Registration Dates
First Submitted 
2020-03-03
First Submitted that Met QC Criteria 
2020-03-03
First Posted 
2020-03-05
Study Record Updates
Last Update Submitted that Met QC Criteria 
2026-02-05
Last Update Posted 
2026-02-09
Last Verified 
2026-02