Study Overview
Brief Summary
Subjects will be offered the opportunity to participate in a randomized, controlled, 2-arm, unblinded multicenter trial (RCT). There will be 2 study arms: the control arm receiving chemotherapy with the modified FOLFIRINOX regimen alone; and the irreversible electroporation (IRE) arm, receiving chemotherapy with the modified FOLFIRINOX regimen followed by IRE with the NanoKnife System using either an open or a percutaneous approach. All subjects will be treated with the modified FOLFIRINOX regimen for at least 3 months; randomization to either control or IRE arm will take place at the time of completion of the 3 month modified FOLFIRINOX chemotherapy regimen. Randomization will be conducted centrally. Subjects will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio and must be found to have no evidence of disease progression after completion of the 3 month modified FOLFIRINOX chemotherapy regimen in order to participate in the RCT. All radiologic assessments will be performed as consistent with the imaging protocol. All post induction and post IRE treatments are left to the discretion of the treating physician. The minimum period of follow-up will be for 24 months or until death.
Official Title
A Randomized, Multicenter, Controlled, Unblinded Study to Assess the Safety and Efficacy of the NanoKnife® System for the Ablation of Unresectable Stage 3 Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma

Contacts and Locations
This section provides contact details for people who can answer questions about joining this study, and information on where this study is taking place.

To learn more, please see the Contacts and Locations section in How to Read a Study Record.

This study has 6 locations
United States
Florida Locations
Miami, Florida, United States, 33176
Miami Cancer Institute
Tampa, Florida, United States, 33606
University of South Florida/Tampa
Illinois Locations
Arlington Heights, Illinois, United States, 60005
Northwest Community Healthcare
Kentucky Locations
Louisville, Kentucky, United States, 40202
Norton Healthcare
Pennsylvania Locations
Easton, Pennsylvania, United States, 18045
St. Luke's Cancer Center
Texas Locations
Dallas, Texas, United States, 75231
University of Texas-Southwestern

Participation Criteria
Researchers look for people who fit a certain description, called eligibility criteria. Some examples of these criteria are a person's general health condition or prior treatments.

For general information about clinical research, read Learn About Studies.
Eligibility Criteria
Description
Inclusion Criteria:

Provision of signed and dated informed consent form.
Subject is 18 years of age and older.
Subject has a diagnosis of unresectable Stage 3 pancreatic adenocarcinoma cancer cytologically or pathologically confirmed per American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) staging criteria.
Subject has a tumor evaluated as Stage 3 according to National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) guidelines, based on radiographic imaging or exploratory surgery.
Maximum axial and anterior to posterior tumor dimension of ≤3.5cm, after receiving three months of treatment with the modified FOLFIRINOX regimen.
Subject has received 3 months of treatment with the modified FOLFIRINOX regimen.
Subject has an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status of 0 or 1.
Subject has an American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) classification of physical health status of 1 or 2.
Exclusion Criteria:

Subjects who are or may be pregnant as determined by a positive pregnancy test or breastfeeding or male or female patients of reproductive potential who are not willing to employ highly effective birth control from screening to 6 months after the last dose of chemotherapy.
Subjects who are unable to tolerate general anesthetic with full skeletal muscle blockade.
Subjects who are actively bleeding, anticoagulated, coagulopathy, or have any of the following hematology results: hemoglobin less than 10 g/dL without the support of growth factors or transfusions absolute neutrophil count less than 1500 cells/mL; or platelet count less than 100,000.
Subjects with the presence of implanted cardiac pacemakers, defibrillators, electronic devices or implanted devices with metal parts in the thoracic cavity at the time of IRE.
Subjects with history of epilepsy or other neurological disease.
Subjects with renal, cardiac, liver, or hematological abnormalities of concern to the investigator.
Subjects with Stage 3, 4, or 5 chronic kidney disease.
Subjects receiving IRE for margin accentuation.
Subjects who at 3 months after FOLFIRINOX treatment have evidence of disease progression.
Participation in another interventional trial for pancreatic cancer.
Subjects who did not meet study defined criteria for adequacy of induction treatment at the end of the 3 months.

Study Plan
This section provides details of the study plan, including how the study is designed and what the study is measuring.

Expand all / Collapse all
How is the study designed?
Design Details
Primary Purpose  : Treatment
Allocation  : Randomized
Interventional Model  : Parallel Assignment
Masking  : None (Open Label)
Arms and Interventions

Participant Group/Arm 	Intervention/Treatment 
Experimental: IRE	Drug: Modified FOLFIRINOX Regimen
Chemotherapy regimen of leucovorin, fluorouracil, irinotecan, and oxaliplatin

Device: NanoKnife System
IRE using NanoKnife System

Active Comparator: Control	Drug: Modified FOLFIRINOX Regimen
Chemotherapy regimen of leucovorin, fluorouracil, irinotecan, and oxaliplatin

What is the study measuring?
Primary Outcome Measures 
Outcome Measure	Measure Description	Time Frame
Overall Survival	Time (in months) from randomization to the date of death for any reason	Time (in months) from randomization to the date of death for any reason, assessed through at least 24 months.
Collaborators and Investigators
This is where you will find people and organizations involved with this study.
Sponsor 
Angiodynamics, Inc.
Publications
From PubMed
These publications are automatically filled in from PubMed, a public database of scientific and medical articles, and may or may not be about the study.

Narayanan G, Bilimoria MM, Hosein PJ, Su Z, Mortimer KM, Martin RCG 2nd. Multicenter randomized controlled trial and registry study to assess the safety and efficacy of the NanoKnife(R) system for the ablation of stage 3 pancreatic adenocarcinoma: overview of study protocols. BMC Cancer. 2021 Jul 7;21(1):785. doi: 10.1186/s12885-021-08474-4.
Study Record Dates
These dates track the progress of study record and summary results submissions to ClinicalTrials.gov. Study records and reported results are reviewed by the National Library of Medicine (NLM) to make sure they meet specific quality control standards before being posted on the public website.
Study Registration Dates
First Submitted 
2019-03-29
First Submitted that Met QC Criteria 
2019-04-01
First Posted 
2019-04-02
Study Record Updates
Last Update Submitted that Met QC Criteria 
2025-02-11
Last Update Posted 
2025-02-12
Last Verified 
2025-02