Study Overview
Brief Summary
The relationship between Microsatellite instability and efficacy of fluorouracil based adjuvant chemotherapy in gastric cancer after operation.
Detailed Description
To explore the relationship between Microsatellite instability and efficacy of fluorouracil based adjuvant chemotherapy in gastric cancer after operation.
Official Title
The Relationship Between Microsatellite Instability and Efficacy of Fluorouracil Based Adjuvant Chemotherapy in Gastric Cancer After Operation

Contacts and Locations
This section provides contact details for people who can answer questions about joining this study, and information on where this study is taking place.

To learn more, please see the Contacts and Locations section in How to Read a Study Record.

This study has 3 locations
China
Gansu Locations
Lanzhou, Gansu, China
The Second Hospital Affiliated to Lanzhou University
Qinghai Locations
Xining, Qinghai, China, 810000
Qinghai University Affiliated Hospital
Xining, Qinghai, China
People's Hospital of Qinghai Province

Participation Criteria
Researchers look for people who fit a certain description, called eligibility criteria. Some examples of these criteria are a person's general health condition or prior treatments.

For general information about clinical research, read Learn About Studies.
Eligibility Criteria
Description
Inclusion Criteria:

Histopathology or cytopathology proven gastric cancer;
Operable advanced gastric cancer patients: primary lesions can be completely excision, no distant metastasis;
Postoperative patients who can tolerate 5-FU based (5-FU，S-1 or Capecitabine) adjuvant chemotherapy;
Life expectancy of at least 6 months;
ECOG（Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group ） score 0-1;
Age: 18~80 years old;
Normal hemodynamic indices before the recruitment (including blood cell count and liver/kidney function).

For example: WBC（White blood cell count ）>4.0×109/L; NEU（Neutrophils）>1.5×109/L; PLT（Platelet）>100×109/L;
Roughly normal cardiopulmonary function: No coronary heart disease, myocardial infarction, pulmonary heart disease, refractory hypertension;
Not concomitant with other uncontrollable benign diseases before the recruitment;
9. Voluntarily signed the informed consent.

Exclusion Criteria:

Advanced gastric cancer patients with distant metastasis and inoperable ;
Patients who cannot tolerate 5-FU based adjuvant chemotherapy;
Pregnant or lactating women;
Patients who have no desire to participate in the study.
Study Population
gastric cancer
Ages Eligible for Study 
18 Years to 80 Years (Adult,  Older Adult )
Sexes Eligible for Study 
All
Accepts Healthy Volunteers 
No
Sampling Method
Probability Sample
Study Plan
This section provides details of the study plan, including how the study is designed and what the study is measuring.

Expand all / Collapse all
How is the study designed?
Design Details
Observational Model  : Cohort
Time Perspective: Prospective
Groups and Interventions

Groups/Cohorts 	Intervention/Treatment 
MSI-H group
We use the immunohistochemical expression of mismatch repair proteins (MutS protein homolog 2( MSH2),MutS protein homolog 6( MSH6) and PMS2（postmeiotic segregation increased 2 ）) to Determine the MSI status . When one antibodies or more show negative nuclear staining of the tumor cells, the MSI state can be defined as Microsatellite instability high (MSI-H).
Other: Microsatellite instability
The microsatellite instability status are definite to three type:MSI-H, MSI-L,and MSS. The gastric cancer patients who received D2 resection were included in 3 groups：MSI-H group， MSI-L group，and MSS group. All patient must be accept fluorouracil(5-FU) based adjuvant chemotherapy. We will analyze the relationship between MSI status and efficacy of 5-FU based adjuvant chemotherapy by observing the survival period of patients with different MSI status.

MSI-L group
We use the immunohistochemical expression of mismatch repair proteins (MLH1, MSH2, MSH6 and PMS2) to Determine the MSI status . when all the four antibodies show positive nuclear staining of the tumor cells, the MSI state can be defined as Microsatellite stable (MSI-L).
Other: Microsatellite instability
The microsatellite instability status are definite to three type:MSI-H, MSI-L,and MSS. The gastric cancer patients who received D2 resection were included in 3 groups：MSI-H group， MSI-L group，and MSS group. All patient must be accept fluorouracil(5-FU) based adjuvant chemotherapy. We will analyze the relationship between MSI status and efficacy of 5-FU based adjuvant chemotherapy by observing the survival period of patients with different MSI status.

MSS group
We use the immunohistochemical expression of mismatch repair proteins (MLH1, MSH2, MSH6 and PMS2) to Determine the MSI status . when all the four antibodies show positive nuclear staining of the tumor cells, the MSI state can be defined as Microsatellite stable (MSS).
Other: Microsatellite instability
The microsatellite instability status are definite to three type:MSI-H, MSI-L,and MSS. The gastric cancer patients who received D2 resection were included in 3 groups：MSI-H group， MSI-L group，and MSS group. All patient must be accept fluorouracil(5-FU) based adjuvant chemotherapy. We will analyze the relationship between MSI status and efficacy of 5-FU based adjuvant chemotherapy by observing the survival period of patients with different MSI status.

What is the study measuring?
Primary Outcome Measures 
Outcome Measure	Measure Description	Time Frame
Disease Free Survival	The time from the primary operation to disease recurrence or death.	5 years
Secondary Outcome Measures 
Outcome Measure	Measure Description	Time Frame
Overall survival(OS)	The The time from operation to death or the last follow-up. The time from operation to death or the last follow-up.	5 years
Collaborators and Investigators
This is where you will find people and organizations involved with this study.
Sponsor 
Affiliated Hospital of Qinghai University
Collaborators 
Qinghai People's Hospital
LanZhou University
Study Record Dates
These dates track the progress of study record and summary results submissions to ClinicalTrials.gov. Study records and reported results are reviewed by the National Library of Medicine (NLM) to make sure they meet specific quality control standards before being posted on the public website.
Study Registration Dates
First Submitted 
2018-03-25
First Submitted that Met QC Criteria 
2018-03-30
First Posted 
2018-04-02
Study Record Updates
Last Update Submitted that Met QC Criteria 
2022-08-07
Last Update Posted 
2022-08-10
Last Verified 
2022-08