Study Overview
Brief Summary
Study to determine the efficacy, safety and tolerability of first-line pazopanib followed by second-line everolimus in metastatic and advanced renal cell carcinoma.

Due to changes in the RCC treatment landscape, info gained is no longer clinically relevant to patients. Data collected is deemed sufficient to meet objective.

Detailed Description
A non-randomised, open label, single-arm phase II study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of 1st-line pazopanib followed by 2nd-line everolimus in patients with previously untreated advanced or metastatic renal cell carcinoma. Subjects received initial therapy with pazopanib followed, on progression, by 2nd-line therapy with everolimus. Study treatment - sequential treatment with pazopanib followed by everolimus - to continue until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, withdrawal of consent, or death.
Official Title
Continuous Access to Advanced and Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma Therapy With Everolimus Post Pazopanib Treatment

Participation Criteria
Researchers look for people who fit a certain description, called eligibility criteria. Some examples of these criteria are a person's general health condition or prior treatments.

For general information about clinical research, read Learn About Studies.
Eligibility Criteria
Description
Inclusion Criteria:

Age ≥ 18 years old.
Patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma of a histological or cytological confirmation of clear cell (or with a component of clear cell) renal carcinoma that have previously progressed on or were intolerant to first-line therapy with sunitinib, sorafenib, pazopanib, axitinib, bevacizumab, or cytokine therapy.
Patients must have had prior nephrectomy (partial or total).
Patients with at least one measurable lesion at baseline as per the RECIST 1.0 criteria. If skin lesions are reported as target lesions, they should be documented (at baseline and at every physical exam) using color photography and a measuring device (such as a caliper) in clear focus to allow the size of the lesion(s) to be determined from the photograph.
Patients with a Karnofsky Performance Status ≥ 70%.
Adequate bone marrow function as shown by:

ANC ≥ 1.5 x 109/L,
Platelets ≥ 100 x 109/L,
Hemoglobin >9 g/dL
Adequate liver function as shown by:

Serum bilirubin ≤ 1.5 x ULN,
ALT and AST ≤ 2.5 x ULN. Patients with known liver metastases may enroll if their AST and ALT ≤ 5 x ULN,
INR < 1.3 (INR < 3 in patients treated with anticoagulants)
Adequate renal function: serum creatinine ≤ 2.0 x ULN.
Fasting serum cholesterol ≤300 mg/dl OR ≤7.75 mmol/L AND fasting triglycerides ≤2.5 x ULN.
Written informed consent obtained before any trial related activity and according to local guidelines.
Exclusion Criteria:

Patients with brain metastases.
Patients within 4 weeks post-major surgery (e.g., intra-thoracic, intra-abdominal or intrapelvic), open biopsy, or significant traumatic injury to avoid wound healing complications.

Minor procedures and percutaneous biopsies or placement of vascular access device require 7 days prior to study entry.

Patients in anticipation of the need for major surgical procedure during the course of the study.
Patients who had radiation therapy within 4 weeks prior to start of study treatment (palliative radiotherapy to bone lesions allowed up to 2 weeks prior to study treatment start).
Patients with a serious non-healing wound, ulcer, or bone fracture.
Patients with a history of seizure(s) not controlled with standard medical therapy.
Patients who have received more than one prior treatment regimen for metastatic renalcell carcinoma
Patients who have received adjuvant therapy for RCC
Patients who have previously received systemic mTOR inhibitors (eg, sirolimus, temsirolimus, everolimus)
Patients with a known hypersensitivity to everolimus or other rapamycins (eg, sirolimus, temsirolimus) or to its excipients.
History or clinical evidence of central nervous system (CNS) metastases.
Clinically significant gastrointestinal abnormalities including, but not limited to:

Malabsorption syndrome:
Major resection of the stomach or small bowel that could affect the absorption of study drug
Active peptic ulcer disease
Inflammatory bowel disease:
i. Ulcerative colitis, or other gastrointestinal conditions with increased risk of perforation ii. History of abdominal fistula, gastrointestinal perforation, or intra abdominal abscess within 28 days prior to beginning study treatment.

Patients with a known history of HIV seropositivity. Screening for HIV infection at baseline is not required.
Active bleeding diathesis
Uncontrolled diabetes mellitus as defined by fasting serum glucose > 2.0 x ULN.
Patients who have any severe and/or uncontrolled medical conditions such as:

unstable angina pectoris, symptomatic congestive heart failure, myocardial infarction

≤ 6 months prior to enrollment, serious uncontrolled cardiac arrhythmia,

active or uncontrolled severe infection,
history of invasive fungal infections,
severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C),
severely impaired lung function
History of cerebrovascular accident (CVA) including transient ischemic attack (TIA) ≤ 6 months before start of study treatment.
History of pulmonary embolism or untreated deep venous thrombosis (DVT) within the past 6 months. Note: Subjects with recent DVT who have been treated with therapeutic anti-coagulating agents for at least 6 weeks are eligible.
Patients who have a history of another primary malignancy and off treatment for ≤ 3 years, with the exception of non-melanoma skin cancer and carcinoma in situ of the uterine cervix or breast, and localized cancer of the bladder (T1) and prostate (T1 - T2).
Female patients who are pregnant or nursing (lactating).
Adults of reproductive potential who are not using effective birth control methods.

Adequate contraceptives must be used throughout the trial and for 8 weeks after last study drug administration in female patients. Women of child-bearing potential must have a negative serum pregnancy test within 7 days prior to first administration of study drug.

Patients who are using other investigational agents or who had received investigational drugs ≤ 2 weeks prior to study treatment start. This should not include sunitinib, sorafenib, axitinib, pazopanib and cytokines.
Patients unwilling or unable to comply with the protocol.
Ages Eligible for Study 
18 Years and older (Adult,  Older Adult )
Sexes Eligible for Study 
All
Accepts Healthy Volunteers 
No
Study Plan
This section provides details of the study plan, including how the study is designed and what the study is measuring.

Expand all / Collapse all
How is the study designed?
Design Details
Primary Purpose  : Treatment
Allocation  : N/A
Interventional Model  : Single Group Assignment
Masking  : None (Open Label)
Arms and Interventions

Participant Group/Arm 	Intervention/Treatment 
Experimental: RAD001
Participants, received RAD001 10 mg orally once daily.
Drug: RAD001
Study drug was supplied as 5 mg tablets in blister packs.

Other Names:
Everolimus
What is the study measuring?
Primary Outcome Measures 
Outcome Measure	Measure Description	Time Frame
Progression-free Survival (PFS) - All Participants	PFS during second-line treatment was defined as the time from the date of enrollment to the date of the first documented disease progression or death due to any cause. The primary analysis of PFS was based on a local radiology review of CT scans and MRI collected until the participant experienced disease progression according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.0.	20 months
Secondary Outcome Measures 
Outcome Measure	Measure Description	Time Frame
Duration of PFS for Each First-line Treatment Cohort	Duration of PFS during second-line treatment was defined as the time from the date of enrollment to the date of the first documented disease progression or death due to any cause. Participants' assessment was based on the local radiological data according to the RECIST 1.0 Criteria.	20 months
Overall Survival (OS)	OS was defined as the time from date of enrollment to date of death due to any cause.	28 months
Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR)	CBR was defined as the proportion of patients with best overall response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) or stable disease based on the local radiological data according to the RECIST 1.0 criteria.	20 months
Objective Response Rate (ORR)	ORR was defined as the proportion of participants with best overall response of CR or PR based on the local radiological data according to the RECIST 1.0 Criteria	20 months
Duration of Response (DoR)	DoR was defined as the time from the first occurrence of PR or CR (as per local radiological review) until the date of the first documented disease progression or death due to underlying cancer.	20 months
Collaborators and Investigators
This is where you will find people and organizations involved with this study.
Sponsor 
Novartis Pharmaceuticals
Investigators 
Study Director:Novartis Pharmaceuticals,Novartis Pharmaceuticals
Publications
From PubMed
These publications are automatically filled in from PubMed, a public database of scientific and medical articles, and may or may not be about the study.

Yang L, Alyasova A, Ye D, Ridolfi A, Dezzani L, Motzer RJ. RECORD-4 multicenter phase 2 trial of second-line everolimus in patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma: Asian versus non-Asian population subanalysis. BMC Cancer. 2018 Feb 17;18(1):195. doi: 10.1186/s12885-018-4091-5.
Motzer RJ, Alyasova A, Ye D, Karpenko A, Li H, Alekseev B, Xie L, Kurteva G, Kowalyszyn R, Karyakin O, Neron Y, Cosgriff T, Collins L, Brechenmacher T, Lin C, Morgan L, Yang L. Phase II trial of second-line everolimus in patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma (RECORD-4). Ann Oncol. 2016 Mar;27(3):441-8. doi: 10.1093/annonc/mdv612. Epub 2015 Dec 17.
Study Record Dates
These dates track the progress of study record and summary results submissions to ClinicalTrials.gov. Study records and reported results are reviewed by the National Library of Medicine (NLM) to make sure they meet specific quality control standards before being posted on the public website.
Study Registration Dates
First Submitted 
2011-12-12
First Submitted that Met QC Criteria 
2011-12-13
First Posted (Estimated) 
2011-12-14
Results Reporting Dates
Results First Submitted 
2016-04-26
Results First Submitted that Met QC Criteria 
2016-04-26
Results First Posted (Estimated) 
2016-06-02
Study Record Updates
Last Update Submitted that Met QC Criteria 
2016-06-02
Last Update Posted (Estimated) 
2016-06-06
Last Verified 
2016-06