Study Overview
Brief Summary
This is a prospective, non-randomized and multicenter study designed to compare biological features between pN0 triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) with size ≤ 10 mm (pT1a/b) versus pT1c T2 ≤ 30 mm.

All consecutive patients will be recruited by each investigator after completion of surgery. No modification of standard management according to each investigator center will be done. All patients will then be followed each year during 5 years in order to collect the following events: local and loco regional recurrence, metastatasis, second cancer, death or not and the cause.

At initial visit, a 10 mL blood sample will be collected (= study intervention) and immediately processed for serum storage; all serum samples will be stored at -80°C and may be used for the purpose of further scientific research.

A representative formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tumor block of all 200 samples will be addressed at the Institut Claudius Regaud for central collection which will consist of one haematoxylin-eosin stained slide for central histological review, up to 15 unstained slides for DNA extraction (after microdissection), and construction of a tissue micro-array (TMA).

Extracted DNA from 100 samples (50 in each group) will then be transferred to Institut Paoli Calmettes, Marseille; extracted DNA will be subjected to array-CGH analysis in order to detect gene copy number alterations such as gains/amplifications/deletions, and to next generation sequencing (NGS; MiSeq, Illumina) using a panel of ~400 genes for mutation detection.

Contacts and Locations
This section provides contact details for people who can answer questions about joining this study, and information on where this study is taking place.

To learn more, please see the Contacts and Locations section in How to Read a Study Record.

This study has 11 locations
France
Angers, France, 49933
Institut de Cancerologie de L'Ouest - Site Paul Papin
Caen, France, 14076
Centre Francois Baclesse
Clermont-Ferrand, France, 63011
Centre Jean Perrin
Le Puy-en-Velay, France, 43000
CH Emile ROUX
Limoges, France, 87042
CHU de LIMOGES - HOPITAL DUPUYTREN
Marseille, France, 13273
Institut Paoli Calmettes
Montpellier, France, 34298
Institut Regional Du Cancer Montpellier
Quint-Fonsegrives, France, 31130
Clinique La Croix Du Sud
Saint-Herblain, France, 44805
Institut de Cancerologie de L'Ouest - Site Rene Gauducheau
Toulouse, France, 31059
Institut Claudius Regaud
Villejuif, France, 94805
Institut Gustave Roussy

articipation Criteria
Researchers look for people who fit a certain description, called eligibility criteria. Some examples of these criteria are a person's general health condition or prior treatments.

For general information about clinical research, read Learn About Studies.
Eligibility Criteria
Description
Inclusion Criteria:

Woman with age ≥ 18 years.
Patient who completed surgery for his breast cancer and for which definitive histo-pathological analysis of surgical specimen is available.
Invasive breast carcinoma pN0 or pN(i+) with histological tumor size ≤ 10 mm (pT1a/b subgroup) or invasive breast carcinoma with histological tumor size > 10 mm and ≤ 30 mm (pT1c T2 ≤ 30 mm control group).
Patient with HER2-negative breast carcinoma: immuno-histochemistry (IHC) score = 0, 1+ or 2+ and in situ hybridization (FISH, CISH, or SISH) negative (local laboratory testing).
Patient with ER and PR negative invasive carcinoma (< 1% stained cells by immuno-histochemistry assay) (local laboratory testing).
In case of multifocality, the histological size of the largest tumor must be ≤ 10 mm or ≤ 30 mm according to the inclusion subgroup. All lesions must be ER, PR and HER2-negative.
In case of breast conserving surgery, clear margins are required.
Patient affiliated to a Social Health Insurance in France.
Patient information and written informed consent form signed prior to any study specific procedures.
Exclusion Criteria:

Patients with any previous malignancy of the breast or other site, with the exception of adequately treated basal or squamous cell carcinoma, non-melanomatous skin cancer totally resected.
Non-invasive breast carcinoma (i.e. ductal carcinoma in situ exclusively).
Inoperable breast invasive carcinoma.
Synchronous bilateral breast cancer.
Patients who received neo-adjuvant treatment (radiotherapy or chemotherapy or other before surgery).
Pregnant or breast-feeding women.
Any psychological, familial, geographic or social situation, according to the judgment of investigator, potentially preventing the provision of informed consent or compliance to study procedure.
Patient who has forfeited his/her freedom by administrative or legal award or who is under guardianship.

Study Plan
This section provides details of the study plan, including how the study is designed and what the study is measuring.

Expand all / Collapse all
How is the study designed?
Design Details
Primary Purpose  : Other
Allocation  : Non-Randomized
Interventional Model  : Parallel Assignment
Masking  : None (Open Label)
Arms and Interventions

Participant Group/Arm 	Intervention/Treatment 
Other: TNBC pT1a/b with size < or = 10 mm
Patients with pN0 triple negative breast tumor with size < or = 10 mm (pT1a/b) Study intervention = blood samples collected at initial visit
Procedure: Blood samples of 10 mL
Blood samples of 10 mL will be collected at initial visit; serum samples will then be stored at the end of the study (-80°C) and may be used for the purpose of further scientific research.

Other: TNBC pT1c T2 with size <or = 30 mm
Patients with pN0 triple negative breast tumor with size < or = 30 mm (pT1c T2) Study intervention = blood samples collected at initial visit
Procedure: Blood samples of 10 mL
Blood samples of 10 mL will be collected at initial visit; serum samples will then be stored at the end of the study (-80°C) and may be used for the purpose of further scientific research.

What is the study measuring?
Primary Outcome Measures 
Outcome Measure	Measure Description	Time Frame
Biomarker signature for pT1a/b pN0 triple-negative breast cancers versus pN0 triple-negative breast cancers with size > or = 11 mm and < or = 30 mm.	biomarker signature will be defined from the protein expression of one or several biomarker(s).	3 years.
Secondary Outcome Measures 
Outcome Measure	Measure Description	Time Frame
Disease free survival.	Disease Free Survival is defined as the time from inclusion until any recurrence (local or regional), contro-lateral breast cancer, second primary breast cancer, distant metastasis, or death from any cause.	7 years.
Metastasis Free Survival.	Metastasis Free Survival is defined as the time from inclusion until distant metastasis or last follow-up news (censored data). All other events are ignored for this endpoint.	7 years.
Overall survival.	Overall survival is defined as the time from inclusion until death from any cause or last follow-up news (censured data).	7 years.
Description and comparison of gene copy number (array-CGH) and gene mutation (targeted NGS) between pT1a/b pN0 triple-negative breast cancer versus pN0 triple-negative breast cancer with size ≥ 11 mm and ≤ 30 mm.	 	7 years.

Collaborators and Investigators
This is where you will find people and organizations involved with this study.
Sponsor 
Institut Claudius Regaud
Investigators 
Study Chair:Florence DALENC, Md.,Institut Claudius Regaud

Study Record Dates
These dates track the progress of study record and summary results submissions to ClinicalTrials.gov. Study records and reported results are reviewed by the National Library of Medicine (NLM) to make sure they meet specific quality control standards before being posted on the public website.
Study Registration Dates
First Submitted 
2014-10-13
First Submitted that Met QC Criteria 
2014-10-16
First Posted (Estimated) 
2014-10-17
Study Record Updates
Last Update Submitted that Met QC Criteria 
2024-12-02
Last Update Posted 
2024-12-03
Last Verified 
2024-08