Study Overview
Brief Summary
This is an open, multicenter phase II trial of therapy with a combination of cetuximab, and irinotecan every second week combined with a daily dose of everolimus to patients with metastatic colorectal cancer with Kirsten rat sarcoma viral oncogene (KRAS) mutation or to patients resistent to cetuximab and irinotecan therapy for metastatic colorectal cancer.
Detailed Description
Main objective:

Number of patients with progressive disease that obtain disease control defined as the sum of patients that obtain a Complete Remission (CR), Partial Remission(PR, or stable disease (SD))
Secondary objectives:

Time to progression after first therapy.
Length of disease control (CR, PR and SD)
Survival from date of start of therapy.
Safety and toxicity of the therapy graded according to Common Toxicity Criteria version 3.0
Influence of smoking on disease control, response, survival and time to progression and other effect parameters in the investigation.
Significance of metabolic response evaluated by a Photon Emissions Tomography (PET)/Computer Tomography(CT)scan.
Blood: Examine the influence of potential predictive and prognostic tumour biomarkers in blood as lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), Carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA), Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), Human Epidermal growth factor Receptor 2 (HER-2), YKL-40, Interleukin-6 (IL-6) ,metallopeptidase inhibitor 1 (TIMP-1), procollagen type I N-terminal propeptide (PINP), Procollagen type 3 N-terminal propeptide (P3NP), gen-, micro-ribonucleinate (microRNA)- and protein array profiles, metabolomics and C-reactive protein (CRP) 2 weeks after start of therapy and thereafter every 8.weeks on disease control, response, survival and time to progression and other parameters investigated.
Tissue: Examine possible predictive and prognostic biomarkers in tissue from primary tumour or metastases for micro-RNAarray profiles, mutations in K-RAS, murine sarcoma viral oncogene homolog (BRAF), Phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PIK3CA), EGFR, tumor protein 53 (p53), and protein expression and polymorphisms of th phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN), epiregulin (EREG), amphiregulin (AREG), Insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1), IGF-1 Receptor (IGF-1R), VEGF, p53, topoisomerase 1 (Topo1), YKL-40, and TIMP-1
Correlation between possible predictive and prognostic biomarkers in blood and tissue.
Official Title
Phase II Examination of Irinotecan, Cetuximab and Everolimus to Chemotherapy Resistent Patients With Metastatic Colorectal Cancer and KRAS Mutations or After Progression With KRAS Wildtype on Irinotecan and Cetuximab - Effect and Biological Markers

Contacts and Locations
This section provides contact details for people who can answer questions about joining this study, and information on where this study is taking place.

To learn more, please see the Contacts and Locations section in How to Read a Study Record.

This study has 1 location
Denmark
Copenhagen Locations
Herlev, Copenhagen, Denmark, 2730
Herlev University Hospital

Participation Criteria
Researchers look for people who fit a certain description, called eligibility criteria. Some examples of these criteria are a person's general health condition or prior treatments.

For general information about clinical research, read Learn About Studies.
Eligibility Criteria
Description
Criteria for inclusion:

Patients with a histological or cytological verified adenocarcinoma of the colon or rectum with non-resectable or metastatic cancer.
Patients with measurable disease without previous radiotherapy
Patients with metastatic colorectal cancer with progression after previous therapy with 5-fluoropyrimidines, oxaliplatin or irinotecan. Patients should have been treated with oxaliplatin, but if oxaliplatin has be contraindicated or not tolerated the patient can participate in the trial.
Patients with KRAS-mutation in their primary tumour or metastasis.
Patients with progression after therapy with irinotecan or cetuximab independent of KRAS mutation status.
Previous radiotherapy is allowed to less than 25 % of the bone marrow.
Age more or equal to 18 years.
Performance status less than 3.
An expected survival time of at least 3 months.
Signed informed consent according to specifications from the ethical comites.
Criteria for exclusion:

Former or other concurrent malignant disease except treated basal cell carcinoma or in situ cervical cancer.
No cytotoxic therapy or other experimental treatment within 28 days before inclusion.
No former therapy with everolimus or other rapamycin as sirolimus or temsirolimus.
No known hypersensitivity for one or more components in the therapy.
No uncontrolled diabetes
No serious non-healing wounds, gastric ulcers, bone fractures, greater surgical procedures, major traumatic injuries within 28 days before inclusion.
No ongoing bleeding or pathological condition associated with a risk of bleeding.
No liver disease as cirrhose, chronical active hepatitis or chronic persistent hepatitis.
No gastrointestinal disturbances in function that might cause a major change in the absorption of everolimus as ulcerative disease, uncontrolled nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, malabsorption syndrome.
No planned immunisation with attenuated virus in the study period.
Patients that is unable to follow treatment or evaluation plan.
Every condition or therapy that after the judgement of investigator might infer the patient a risk or influence the trials objective.
Pregnant or breastfeeding women.
At fertile women this is insured by a negative test of pregnancy or use of a safe anticonception during the trial period and at least 3 months after end of treatment.
Patients with active infections or other serious medical co-morbidity, that might prevent the patient from being treated with the protocoled therapy.
Incapacitated

Study Plan
This section provides details of the study plan, including how the study is designed and what the study is measuring.

Expand all / Collapse all
How is the study designed?
Design Details
Primary Purpose  : Treatment
Allocation  : Non-Randomized
Interventional Model  : Single Group Assignment
Masking  : None (Open Label)
Arms and Interventions

Participant Group/Arm 	Intervention/Treatment 
Experimental: Cetuximab, everolimus, irinotecan	Drug: Everolimus
Patients with KRAS mutant tumours are treated with cetuximab, everolimus and irinotecan as third line.

Patients with KRAS wildtype tumours that have progressed on therapy with cetuximab and irinotecan are treated with cetuximab, everolimus and Irinotecan.


Drug: Everolimus
1.66 mg per day up to 7½ mg per day

Active Comparator: Cetuximab, everolimus and Irinotecan.
Patients with metastatic colorectal cancer with KRAS mutant tumours are treated with cetuximab, everolimus and irinotecan.

Patients with KRAS wildtype colorectal cancer that have progressed on therapy with cetuximab and irinotecan are treated with cetuximab, irinotecan and everolimus.

Drug: Everolimus
1.66 mg per day up to 7½ mg per day

What is the study measuring?
Primary Outcome Measures 
Outcome Measure	Measure Description	Time Frame
Clinical benefit (SD+PR+CR)	Clinical benefit is defined as the number of patients with stable disease lasting 2 months and partial response and CR as defined in RECIST 1.1	1 year

Collaborators and Investigators
This is where you will find people and organizations involved with this study.
Sponsor 
Herlev Hospital
Collaborators 
Odense University Hospital
Aalborg University Hospital
Investigators 
Principal Investigator:Benny V Jensen, MD,University of Copenhagen

Publications
From PubMed
These publications are automatically filled in from PubMed, a public database of scientific and medical articles, and may or may not be about the study.

Spindler KG, Demuth C, Sorensen BS, Johansen JS, Nielsen D, Pallisgaard N, Hoegdall E, Pfeiffer P, Vittrup Jensen B. Total cell-free DNA, carcinoembryonic antigen, and C-reactive protein for assessment of prognosis in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer. Tumour Biol. 2018 Nov;40(11):1010428318811207. doi: 10.1177/1010428318811207.

Study Record Dates
These dates track the progress of study record and summary results submissions to ClinicalTrials.gov. Study records and reported results are reviewed by the National Library of Medicine (NLM) to make sure they meet specific quality control standards before being posted on the public website.
Study Registration Dates
First Submitted 
2011-06-27
First Submitted that Met QC Criteria 
2011-07-05
First Posted (Estimated) 
2011-07-06
Study Record Updates
Last Update Submitted that Met QC Criteria 
2012-03-18
Last Update Posted (Estimated) 
2012-03-20
Last Verified 
2012-03