Study Overview
Brief Summary
This is a prospective, phase 3 randomized controlled clinical trial. Cervical cancer patients with FIGO stage IB3, Ⅱ A2 or IIB with tumor size> 4 cm will be enrolled. Patients will undergo 2-3 cycles of neoadjuvant chemotherapyradical (NACT) followed by laparotomic or laparoscopic hysterectomy + pelvic lymphadenectomy with cervical cancer foci sealed before dissection of the vagina and without uterine manipulator. Patients meet criteria of adjuvant therapy according to NCCN guideline after surgery will be weeded out, and who do not meet criteria of adjuvant therapy will be randomly selected to undergo adjuvant chemotherapy or just follow-up visit. The primary endpoint was disease-free survival (DFS) rate at 5 year. The secondary endpoints were 5-year overall survival (OS), safety and quality of life.
Official Title
Clinical Efficacy of Adjuvant Chemotherapy in Patients With Locally Advanced Cervical Cancer Who Did Not Meet the NCCN Guidelines for Adjuvant Treatment After NACT Combined With Surgery

Contacts and Locations
This section provides contact details for people who can answer questions about joining this study, and information on where this study is taking place.

To learn more, please see the Contacts and Locations section in How to Read a Study Record.

Study Contact 
Name: Ding Ma, M.D., PhD

Phone Number: 0086-27-83662681

Email: dma@tjh.tjmu.edu.cn

This study has 1 location
China
Hubei Locations
Wuhan, Hubei, China, 430000
RecruitingTongji Hospital
Contact :
Ding Ma, M.D., PhD
0086-27-83662681  dma@tjh.tjmu.edu.cn

Participation Criteria
Researchers look for people who fit a certain description, called eligibility criteria. Some examples of these criteria are a person's general health condition or prior treatments.

For general information about clinical research, read Learn About Studies.
Eligibility Criteria
Description
Inclusion Criteria:

Clinical stage IB3-IIB cervical cancer (FIGO, 2018 standard) with the tumor diameter > 4cm before treatment.
Pathologically confirmed cervical cancer, including cervical squamous cell carcinoma, adenocarcinoma and adenosquamous carcinoma.
Age：18-70 years old.
ECOG status score ≤1;
WBC≥3.5*10^9/L, NEU≥1.5*10^9/L, Platelet≥80×10^9 /L; AST and ALT ≤1.5 times normal upper limit; Total bilirubin ≤1.5 times the upper limit of normal value; serum creatinine and blood urea nitrogen ≤the upper limit of normal value.
Well-compliance and willing to keep in touch.
Able to sign informed consent, including complying with the requirements and restrictions listed in the Informed Consent (ICF) and this protocol.
Exclusion Criteria:

After 2-3 cycles of neoadjuvant chemotherapy, patients do not undergo laparotomic or laparoscopic extensive hysterectomy + pelvic lymph node dissection with cervical cancer foci sealed before dissection of the vagina and without uterine manipulator.
Neoadjuvant chemotherapy regimens are different from postoperative adjuvant therapy regimens.
Postoperative high risk factors: ① lymph node metastasis, ② parauterine infiltration, ③ positive surgical margin.
Postoperative risk factors meet the Sedlis standard of the NCCN guideline.
Participate in other clinical trials.
Severe diseases of other important systems and organs.
Persons without disposing capacity.
Drug and/or alcohol abuse.
Unable or unwilling to sign informed consents.
Not eligible for the study judged by researchers.
Ages Eligible for Study 
18 Years to 70 Years (Adult,  Older Adult )
Sexes Eligible for Study 
Female
Accepts Healthy Volunteers 
No
Study Plan
This section provides details of the study plan, including how the study is designed and what the study is measuring.

Expand all / Collapse all
How is the study designed?
Design Details
Primary Purpose  : Treatment
Allocation  : Randomized
Interventional Model  : Parallel Assignment
Masking  : None (Open Label)
Arms and Interventions

Participant Group/Arm 	Intervention/Treatment 
Experimental: Adjuvant chemotherapy group
Participant will receive at least 2 cycles of adjuvant chemotherapy. If having any of the following factors, participant will receive additional 2 cycles of adjuvant chemotherapy per risk factor. All patients received maximum 6 cycles of postoperative chemotherapy.

Risk factors: (1) Deep cervical invasion（≥ 2/3）；（2）Differentiation grade 2-3；（3）Lymphatic vascular space infiltration；（4）Adenocarcinoma or adenosquamous carcinoma；（5）Tumor size ≥ 4cm before surgery.

Drug: Adjuvant chemotherapy
Drug: Paclitaxel or docetaxel + Cisplatin or carboplatin Paclitaxel 135-175mg/m2 over 3 hours or docetaxel 70-75 mg/m2， 30min ＋ Cisplatin 75-80mg/m2 or carboplatin AUC = 5, repeat per 21 days.

No Intervention: Control group
The participants receive no intervention.
What is the study measuring?
Primary Outcome Measures 
Outcome Measure	Measure Description	Time Frame
Disease-free survival (DFS)	DFS is defined as the time interval between the date of random assignment and the date of the first documented evidence of relapse at any site or death related to cancer (including toxicity), whichever occurred first.	5 year
Secondary Outcome Measures 
Outcome Measure	Measure Description	Time Frame
Overall survival （OS）	OS is defined as the time from the date of randomization until death of any cause.	5 year
Quality of Life Outcomes	Patients are asked to complete the questionnaire EORTC QLQ-C30	5 years
Quality of Life Outcomes of cervical cancer	Patients are asked to complete the questionnaire EORTC QLQ-CX24	5 years
Incidence of Toxicity	The toxicity induced by chemotherapy during observation time will be estimated on the basis of the National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria Version 5.0.	5 years
Collaborators and Investigators
This is where you will find people and organizations involved with this study.
Sponsor 
Huazhong University of Science and Technology
Collaborators 
Women's Hospital School Of Medicine Zhejiang University
Qilu Hospital of Shandong University
Obstetrics & Gynecology Hospital of Fudan University
First Affiliated Hospital of Chongqing Medical University
Hunan Cancer Hospital
The Third Xiangya Hospital of Central South University
Study Record Dates
These dates track the progress of study record and summary results submissions to ClinicalTrials.gov. Study records and reported results are reviewed by the National Library of Medicine (NLM) to make sure they meet specific quality control standards before being posted on the public website.
Study Registration Dates
First Submitted 
2021-01-21
First Submitted that Met QC Criteria 
2021-01-30
First Posted 
2021-02-02
Study Record Updates
Last Update Submitted that Met QC Criteria 
2021-01-30
Last Update Posted 
2021-02-02
Last Verified 
2021-01