Study Overview
Brief Summary
The purpose of this study is to investigate the prevalence of tissue homologous recombination repair (HRR)-related gene mutations (positive/negative/Variant of uncertain significance (VUS)), clinical outcome such as prostate-specific antigen-progression free survival (PSA-PFS), overall survivals (OS) and treatment pattern in mCRPC patients.

<Methods> Study design: multi-center, prospective cohort study

Data Source(s):

In this study, 155 patients (expected recruitment patients: maximum 205 patients) will be enrolled from approximately 20~30 sites in Japan. Study Population: mCRPC patients who diagnosed between 2014 and 2018. Exposure(s): N.A Outcome(s): Prevalence of tissue HRR-related gene mutations, clinical outcomes such as Over survival and PSA-PFS, Treatment pattern

Sample Size Estimations:

The target population is 155 patients based on the prevalence of HRR-related genes (BRCA1, BRCA2 and ATM) which is reported in previous global study (PROfound study).

Statistical Analysis:

This study is not intended to verify specific hypotheses, and the results are evaluated descriptively. There is no plan of interim analyses before the final analysis.

Official Title
Prevalence of HRR-related Genes Mutations and Prognosis in Metastatic Castration Resistant Prostate Cancer (mCRPC) Patients in Real World Setting

Contacts and Locations
This section provides contact details for people who can answer questions about joining this study, and information on where this study is taking place.

To learn more, please see the Contacts and Locations section in How to Read a Study Record.

This study has 26 locations
Japan
Chiba, Japan
Chiba University Hospital
Gifu, Japan
Gifu University Hospital
Kyoto, Japan
Kyoto Prefectural University of Medicine
Miyazaki, Japan
University of Miyazaki Hospital
Okayama, Japan
Okayama University Hospital
Aichi-ken Locations
Nagoya, Aichi-ken, Japan
Nagoya City University Hospital
Nagoya, Aichi-ken, Japan
Nagoya University Hospital
Aomori Locations
Hirosaki, Aomori, Japan
Hirosaki University Hospital
Chiba Locations
Kashiwa, Chiba, Japan
Jikei University Kashiwa Hospital
Ehime Locations
Tōon, Ehime, Japan
Ehime University Hospital
Hiroshima Locations
Kure, Hiroshima, Japan
National Hospital Organization Kure Medical Center
Hokkaido Locations
Hakodate, Hokkaido, Japan
Hakodate Goryoukaku Hospital
Sapporo, Hokkaido, Japan
Hokkaido University Hospital
Sapporo, Hokkaido, Japan
Sapporo Medical University Hospital
Hyōgo Locations
Kobe, Hyōgo, Japan
Kobe City Medical Center General Hospital
Kobe, Hyōgo, Japan
Kobe University Hospital
Ibaraki Locations
Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan
University of Tsukuba Hospital
Ishikawa-ken Locations
Kanazawa, Ishikawa-ken, Japan
Kanazawa University Hospital
Kagawa-ken Locations
Hiragi, Kagawa-ken, Japan
Kagawa University Hospital
Kanagawa Locations
Yokohama, Kanagawa, Japan
Yokohama City University Hospital
Yokohama, Kanagawa, Japan
Yokohama City University Medical Center
Nara Locations
Kashihara, Nara, Japan
Nara Medical University Hospital
Osaka Locations
Sayama, Osaka, Japan
Kindai University Hospital
Saitama Locations
Kawagoe, Saitama, Japan
Saitama Medical Center
Tottori Locations
Yonago, Tottori, Japan
Tottori University Hospital
Yamaguchi Locations
Ube, Yamaguchi, Japan
Yamaguchi University Hospital

Participation Criteria
Researchers look for people who fit a certain description, called eligibility criteria. Some examples of these criteria are a person's general health condition or prior treatments.

For general information about clinical research, read Learn About Studies.
Eligibility Criteria
Description
Inclusion Criteria:

Age > 20, Japanese men at the time of informed consent.
Patients who provided informed consent. If the patient has died, opt-out will be applicable.
Patients who are diagnosed as mCRPC between January 1st in 2014 and December 31st in 2018.
Patients who have a FFPE tumor sample (primary or metastatic) with Formalin Neutral Buffer Solution.
Patients which the investigator judges to secure the enough amount of tumor samples for future laboratory test.
Exclusion Criteria:

Patients who have failed HRR-related gene mutation testing with the myChoice HRD plus in screening period.
Patients who have an only FFPE primary tumor sample (primary or metastatic) with unbuffered formalin including acidic formalin.
Patients who have taken an investigational medical product for prostate cancer from Jan 1st , 2014 to Dec 31st 2020.
Study Population
The target population is mCRPC patients who diagnosed between 2014 and 2018 and be confirmed to be succeeded HRR-related gene mutation analysis with archived primary or metastatic tumor sample. As median of expected overall survival of mCRPC is 2.5 to 3 years from diagnosis, follow up period is enough to measure outcomes including survival. The baseline period is set to calculate overall survival and to detect clinical outcome at least half. The patients will be enrolled consecutively to this study.
Gender-based Eligibility 
Yes
Ages Eligible for Study 
(Child,  Adult,  Older Adult )
Sexes Eligible for Study 
Male
Accepts Healthy Volunteers 
No
Sampling Method
Probability Sample
Study Plan
This section provides details of the study plan, including how the study is designed and what the study is measuring.

Expand all / Collapse all
How is the study designed?
Design Details
Observational Model  : Cohort
Time Perspective: Prospective
Biospecimen Retention: Samples With DNA
Biospecimen Description: An archived formalin fixed paraffin embedded (FFPE) sample, ten slides and 10 μm in thickness on uncharged slide be used for HRR-related gene mutation testing in principle. And also, ten 10 μm slides is sent to Myriad with one 3-5 micron on a charge slide for the HE staining(Hematoxylin and eosin staining) which is continuous with the slice for HRR-related gene mutation. These contents include with a sample of >25 mm2 in section area containing a ≥30% tumor nuclei preferred (≥20% tumor nuclei accepted). If patients have some tumor samples at multiple points, the latest sample is preferred to use HRR-related gene mutation testing. And other tumor sample is acceptable to use HRR-related gene mutation testing if test is failed.
What is the study measuring?
Primary Outcome Measures 
Outcome Measure	Measure Description	Time Frame
Prevalence of tissue HRR-related gene mutations	Calculate number and prevalence of each HRR-related gene mutation status (Positive/Negative/VUS), respectively. Prevalence will be accompanied by 95% Clopper-Pearson confidence intervals.	Baseline
Secondary Outcome Measures 
Outcome Measure	Measure Description	Time Frame
Proportion of each treatment pattern	The number (%) of patients by treatment pattern in 1st line treatment, 2nd line, and 3rd line treatment after diagnosed as mCRPC, respectively, will be calculated.	From index date(diagnosed as mCRPC) patients to December 31 2020
Other Outcome Measures 
Outcome Measure	Measure Description	Time Frame
Patient's characteristics including stratified by tissue HRR-related gene mutations in mCRPC patients	Patient's characteristics will be summarized.	Baseline
PSA50 response	PSA50 response will be analysed based on baseline and nadir PSA value in each treatment.	From index date(diagnosed as mCRPC) to december 31 2020
Collaborators and Investigators
This is where you will find people and organizations involved with this study.
Sponsor 
AstraZeneca
Study Record Dates
These dates track the progress of study record and summary results submissions to ClinicalTrials.gov. Study records and reported results are reviewed by the National Library of Medicine (NLM) to make sure they meet specific quality control standards before being posted on the public website.
Study Registration Dates
First Submitted 
2020-05-21
First Submitted that Met QC Criteria 
2020-06-08
First Posted 
2020-06-11
Study Record Updates
Last Update Submitted that Met QC Criteria 
2021-11-30
Last Update Posted 
2021-12-07
Last Verified 
2021-11
